CAMDS SPECIFICATION
FOR
UPA/ECC AIRLOCK CONCRETE MODIFICATION
PSC HOT WASTE DRAIN LINE
SPECIFICATION
NO. 01-01
24 February 1976
Allen R. Olsen
CHEMICAL AGENVMUNITIONS DISPOSAL SYSTE
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
DA358149 DA01 5995-1
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
Tooele Army Depot
Tooele, Utah
SPECIFICATION FOR
UPA/ECC AIRLOCK CONCRETE MODIFICATION
&
PSC HOT WASTE DRAIN LINE
Prepared by:
ALLEN R. OLSEN
Civil Engineer
Approved by:
Ch, Engineeriy 1
24 February 1976
1.0. Scope.
1.1. Job Description.
This job consists of three separate, but related and inter-
dependent, concrete modification and plumbing projects. They are referred
to as A, B, and C, respectively and are briefly:
PART A - Sawing and removal of existing concrete in two existing
buildings and installing new floor drains before pouring new floors with
curb. Includes painting new concrete with specified epoxy paint, and modifi-
cation to two existing personnel door locations.
PART B - Tying into an existing floor drain and running to a
new location. Cap off old line.
PART C - Installation of a new drain line from the PSC to con-
nect with the drain line installed in Part A. Connection of two existing
drain vent lines.
Contractor is to provide all materials and labor required to
complete the work unless specifically noted herein.
1.2. Submittals.
Although the contract will be awarded on the basis of one cumu-
lative price, the bid must be submitted as three prices, one each for parts
A, B, and C.
1.3. Job Conditions.
The worksite is at the CAMDS Site, South Area, Tooele Army Depot.
Parts A and B are located within buildings that are heated and lighted and
will afford the contractor independence from the effects of weather. Work on
the drain line required in Part C will be outside except for connecting to
the drain line of Part A, which is within a building.
1.4. Schedule.
All work, except the epoxy painting, is to be completed not
later than five weeks after award of contract. The epoxy painting will be
completed within five weeks following pouring of new concrete.
2.0. Applicable Documents.
2.1. Drawings.
The following drawings form part of this specification:
Dwgs Date
TCDS 01-705-01 23 Feb 75 Pertains to Part B of Contract
TCDS 01-705-04 23 Feb 75 Pertains to Part A of Contract
TCDS 01-705-05 23 Feb 75 Pertains to Part A of Contract
TCDS 02-706-05 23 Feb 75 Pertains to Part A of Contract
TCDS 02-706-07 23 Feb 75 Pertains to Part A of Contract
TCDS 12-720-07 23 Feb 75 Pertains to Part C of Contract
Also provided for information purposes, but not necessarily
part of the specification, are building manufacturer's erection drawings
of the door frame assembly. These will be useful for the door jam reloca-
tion required in Part A.
2.2. Codes.
The most current edition of the following codes form part of
this specification.
a. American Concrete Institute, Standard 318.
b. ASTM-D-1784-G5T, ASTM-D-1785, and ASTM-D-256A.
2
c. Manual of Steel Construction, American Institute of Steel
Construction.
3.0. Requirements.
3.1. Requirement for Part A.
Part A covers concrete modification work, associated plumbing
and door modification required for two air locks; one each in the Unpack
Area Building and the adjacent ECC Building. Required work for the Unpack
Area Airlock is shown on drawings TCDS 01-705-04 and TCDS 01-705-05. Drawing
TCDS 01-705-04 shows the final configuration desired. The shaded area
represents the area of existing unpack area concrete floor that is to be sawed,
removed and replaced with new concrete floor and curbing as shown.
Concrete will be removed by sawing. A gas powered concrete saw
with a 24" (or larger) blade will be used. The concrete will be completely
sawed through and separated from concrete to remain before removal is started.
The only allowable exception to this may be necessitated where the floor
thickens along the east wall of the Unpack Area Building. This 22' cut will
be made parallel and as near to the curb as possible, 2" desirable, and will
be made to the maximum depth obtainable with a 24" blade. If this cut is
not of adequate depth to saw through the entire depth of the floor, then
the concrete to be disposed of will be carefully removed by jack hammer or
other means previously approved by the contracting officer. The east wall
of the Unpack Area Building is a load bearing wall and only a shallow thick-
edge slab with a separately poured curb support the load. It is, therefore,
important that care is exercised in removing concrete adjacent to this wall.
The contractor will be responsible to protect the integrity of the remaining
3
concrete, and shall work closely with the project engineer to insure that
work is accomplished in the most favorable manner to accomplish this end.
Concrete cuts in vertical walls will be made with a saw made for this
application (wall saw) and approved by the contracting officer. Unless
specifically exempted by the contracting officer, all cuts in vertical walls
will be full penetration cuts. Clean cuts at all locations, including
corners, are required.
Notes Bl through, and including B5 on drawing TCDS 01-705-04
form part of this specification.
Slope of concrete floors toward drains shall be strictly
adhered to and reverse slope, flat locations or puddles will render the
concrete unacceptable. A minimum slope of 1/4" per foot will be maintained.
New plumbing, as shown on drawings will be provided and installed
by the contractor.
Required work for the ECC Housing Airlock is shown on drawings
TCDS 02-706-05 and TCDS 02-706-07. The shaded area of TCDS 02-706-05
represents the area of the existing ECC Housing concrete floor that is to
be sawed, removed, and replaced with new concrete floor and curbing as shown.
Only the shaded area, dimensions to the shaded area, notes connected to the
shaded area by arrow, and notes 2 and 3 apply to this contract. Other details
and notes are existing construction and appear only for information. All of
sheet TCDS 02-706-07 is applicable.
All plumbing shown on sheets TCDS 02-706-05 and TCDS 02-706-07
is new and will be provided and installed by the contractor. All comments
made above in reference to sawing and removal of Unpack Area concrete also
4
pertains to the ECC Airlock concrete removal, with the exception of sawing
along the building wall. Removal of concrete along the east wall of the
ECC Airlock will be much simpler since the floor and foundation were poured
separately in this building, as shown in section A-A, drawing TCDS 02-706-
05.
Apply coating of Rowe Brand Epoxy Paint (5E84 Mastic Base) to
all new concrete surfaces in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
No substitutions allowed. Concrete must cure at least 30 days before epoxy
paint can be applied. Paint applied to floor shall include 50 lbs. of
Ottawa flint shot sand per gallon of paint to provide a non-skid surface.
3.2. Requirements for Part B:
Part B consists of cutting an existing drain line that will be
exposed when the Unpack Area Airlock concrete floor is removed, as described
above, and cutting it at two locations. The cut segment will be removed and
disposed of. Note 5 on drawing TCDS 01-705-01 details work required. Notes
1 through 4 on the same sheet do not apply to this contract. The foundation
plan of this sheet and TCDS 01-705-04 locate both the existing and new lines.
3.3. Requirement for Part C:
Requirements for Part C are detailed on TCDS 12-720-07.
3.3.a. Two existing vent lines, located under the Personnel
Support Complex (trailer type modules) will be tied together with 2" PVC
pipe and a vertical extension of this line will penetrate the module floor
and terminate 24" above the module floor. Contractor will caulk around the
floor penetration with RTV. To obtain access to these vent pipes, the
contractor will be required to remove skirting panels from the Personnel
5
Support Complex module. These panels are attached with hex-head screws
and double-headed nails. The contractor will be responsible for reinstalla-
tion of skirting. Contractor will be responsible for replacement of any
damaged components. The contractor will also be responsible for removal of
a 7' segment of 3" PVC drain line, and capping two 4" lines. These lines
are covered with only 4" of soil.
3.3.b. A new 3" dia steel drain line will be provided and
installed by the contractor. The elevations at the beginning (PSC) and
end (tie into UPA airlock drain) are shown on the drawings. Location and
elevation of a bench mark (BM) from which all site elevations are measured,
is shown on drawing TCDS 12-720-07. Although the fixed end elevations will
dictate the depth of the line, the average depth is approximately 24".
Drain line will be bedded in pea gravel in such a manner that there will be
at least 6" of pea gravel on all sides of the pipe. The steel drain line
will be connected to the unpack Area Airlock drain line (4" PVC) with a steel
flange to PVC flange to 600 elbow to 4" x 4" x 3" PVC reducing tee. Approx.
location of tie-in is as shown on drawing TCDS 01-705-04. The contractor
will backfill the trench in no greater than 6" lifts with enough water added
to obtain maximum compaction. New asphalt pavement will be placed (not in
this contract) over this area soon after completion of the drain line.
Contractor will be responsible for pavement or drainage damage caused by
excessive settlement of the drain line trench.
4.0. Quality Assurance.
4.1. Materials and Workmanship.
Unless otherwise indicated, the details of design, fabrication and
6
construction of steel reinforced concrete shall conform to American
Concrete Institute Standard 318-71. Water used in mixing concrete shall
be clean and free from deleterious amounts of acids, alkalis, or organic
materials. Concrete shall have a minimum compressive strength of 3,000
pounds per square inch at 28 days. Concrete shall not be less than a six
bag mix. Maximum slump shall be four inches.
Forms may be made of wood, metal, or other approved materials
selected to produce the specified surface finish. Forms shall be sufficiently
tight to prevent leakage of the mortar and shall be properly braced or tied
together so as to maintain position and shape.
The finished surfaces of all concrete shall be free from
aggregate pockets or honeycomb. Where minor defects appear they shall be
repaired while the concrete is still green by painting with a neat cement
grout, and patched with a cement, white silica sand, and anti-hydro mixture.
All ties, wires, nails, etc., shall be cut off at least 1/4" back of the
surface and the holes patched as described above.
All concrete shall be cured as described in the Requirements
paragraph. Membrane curing compounds shall not be used since the surface
will be maintained clean until an epoxy paint is applied. No air entraining
agents will be used.
All PVC pipe and fittings shall meet requirements of ASTM-D-
1784-G5T and ASTM-D-1785 for PVC Type 1, Grade 1 material (Sch 40). Solvents
used for PVC pipe and fitting shall comply with ASTM-D-256A.
All fill required for backfill shall be commercially obtained
road base.
7
4.2. Testing.
A government inspector will perform slump and cylinder strength tests
on the concrete to determine if it complies with this specification. The
contractor will be responsible to inform the government inspector of the
time of a pour not less than 24 hours before that pour. If the contractor
pours without the required prior notification, and a question arises about
the acceptability of the concrete, the concrete will be ruled unacceptable,
since the contractor prevented the government from verifying acceptability
of the concrete.
5.0. Notes.
5.1. Removal and Disposal.
The contractor will be responsible for removal of all waste
concrete and all other materials from the site and to the assigned disposal
pit. The contracting officer will assign which disposal pit will be used.
The disposal pit will be at the South Area, as near to the site as possible.
5.2. Maintenance and Clean-up of Construction Site.
The contractor will be responsible for maintaining his construc-
tion area in a clean and safe manner. The contractor will be responsive
to requests from both the government inspector and safety inspector in regard
to site cleanliness and safety procedures. Before the job is complete and
acceptance is made, the construction site must be cleaned to the government
inspectors approval.
8
CAMDS SPECIFICATION
FOR
UNPACK AREA BUILDING
SPECIFICATION
NO. 01-02
21 September 1973
James M. Jensen
' CHEMICAL AGENVMUNITIDNS DISPOSAL SYSTEA
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
I I DA 1 IoIII IDil0 0 -DA358206 DA01 6 08-1
DOCUMEb-UO11I c1?
BRANCH
AMMUNITION EQUIPYMET OFFICECA S
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH
21 September 1973
SPECIFICATION T-172
UNPACK AREA BUILDING
PREPARED BY: REVIEWED BY:
SEP L. PALMER
Mechanical Engineer h, lT&M Branch
CONCURRED BY: APPRO (D BY:
K. C LUFF *_c
leticlEngin Cli AZ Equip Office
CONCURRED BY:
•,./•? -...
/(S, PAULICK
Ch, Engineering Sec
SPECIFICATION FOR THE UNPACK AMEA BUILDING
1. 0 SCOPE
This specification covers the requiriments for a standard seLf-framing
steel building to enclose an existing Unpack Area at the CAMDS site, South
Area, Tooele Army Depot, Utah. This project consists of extending the
Unpack Area concrete pad, construction of adequate concrete foundations
and curbs with.anchor bolts set to specifications, and erection of the
specified, building around the Unpack Area. The contractor shall provide
the building complete with all necessary component parts to form a compLete
building system except as noted in the following paragraphs. Concrete work,
unloading and erection of the building shall be the responsibility of the
contractor with all unloading equipment, erection equipment, and services
provided by the contractor. Building shall contain no heating, but electrical
work to provide Lighting and power for overhead doors, and instalintion of
wall liners with insulation will also be performed by the contractor. The
service panel will be furnished by the government. All other electricnL
fixtures and equipment will be furnished by the contractor.
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 The following drawings form a part of this specification (copies
attached):
Drawing No. SK-T-172-705 (sheet I of 4); Concrete SLob - Detnils
Drawing No. SK-T-172-705 (sheet 2 of 4); Foundation Detnils
Drawing No. SK-T-172-705 (sheet 3 of 4); Floor Plan and Building
Elevations
Drawing NO. SK-T-172-705 (sheet 4 of 4); Electrical Details
2.2 The following documents form a part of this specification:
2.2.1 Department of the Army, Guide Specifications for Military Construc-
tion:
"Metal Buildings," Specification No. C.E. 201.01
"Structural Steel," Specification No. C.E. 214.01
"Roofing and Siding, Protected Steel or Aluminum Coated Steel,"
Specification No. C.E. 222.01 and C.E. 222.07
"Steel Doors and Frames," Specification No. C.E. 225.02
2.2.2 American Institute of Steel Construction (AISC), publication;
"Specifications for the Design, Fabrication and Erection of Structurnl
Steel Buildings..
2.2.3 American Welding Society (AWS), publications; "Code for Welding in
Building Construction, No. Dl.0-69."
2.2.4 American Society of Heating, Refrigeration, and Air-Conditioning
Engineers (ASHRAE) publications; "ASHRAE Handbook of Fundamentals."
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General Requirements
Erect a steel self-framing building and construct its' foundation,
flooring, and specified internal utilities. The building will be of
standard commercial design with outside wall dimensions of 24'-Q0 by
32'-0" and nominal wall height of 14'-0". The building shall be free of
structural obstructions within the walls. The commercial structure
will be one that has been designed for a minimum of 30 PSF live load and
20 PSF wind load in addition to the structural dead load.
3.2 Floor/Foundation Requirements
2
3.2.1 The reinforced concrete floor and foundation will be constructed
by the contractor in accordance with the referenced drawing and erection
instructions accompanying the steel structure. Sheet L of referenced
drawings details the existing slab; sheet 2 details concrete work required.
A concrete with a minimum twenty-eight day compressive strength of 2500 psi
will be used. Concrete will not be placed during weather that will be
detrimental to the proper hydration of the concrete. To assure proper
curing a surface treatment will be required. For this purpose an approved
impervious coating material will be applied directly upon the concrete
surface immediately following the completion of the finishing operation.
3.2.2 A smooth finish will be' required on the floor surface to facilitnte
cleaning.
3.2.3 All necessary anchor bolts shall be accurately set by template while
the concrete is in a plastic state.
3.3 Wall and roof Requirements
3.3.1 The building shall be designed and erected so as to be leakproof and
weather tight, including interfaces with all installed fixtures such as
doors and utility inlets.
3.3.2 The roof will be clear span, gable type, having a rise of nt least
forty-eight inches in the twenty-four foot width of the building.
3.3.3 Wells will be lined end sealed on the interior side.
3.4 Door Requirements
Doors will be fully compatible with the building system adopted and
will be sized as shown on the drawings. With the exception of two swing
doors, all doors will be of the overhead rollup type. Overhead doors
3
will be explosion proof, 208 volts, 3 phase, electrically operated. There
is no requirement for a key-type locking device, however, a means for
latching closed doors is required. Doorways of the overhead doors will,
have no ground level obstructions that would interfere with forklift
operation into and out of the building. All swing doors will swing out
and will be equipped with panic hardware. Each swing door shall have a
window in its' top section.
3.5 Insulation Requirement
Insulation shall be of sufficient thickness to provide a coeeficient of
heat transmission, or U-value, not in excess of .21 for walls and .07 for
roof when determined for winter conditions in accordance with recognized*
methods. Insulation used will be of the non-combustible rigid fiber glass
board type laminated to interior wall panels. Insulation shall not crack,
lose bond, or otherwise fail due to deflections, temperature changes, or ad-
verse humidity conditions. The interior wall panels shall have a flame spread
rating not in excess of twenty-five and a smoke developed rating not in excess
of fifteen when tested by the methods of ASTM Specification No. E84.
3.6 Finishing and Maintainability Requirements
3.6.1 The building walls, roof, doors, all flashing, interior wall panels,
or other portions which either face the outdoors or form part of the inner
surfaces shall be protected by acrylic plasticbase enamel (or equivalent)
paint. Gutters and down-spouting can be either galvinized or painted. The
predominant outside color for the walls and doors shall be of a light green
color. The door frames and other fascia shall be painted to match adjacent
surfaces.
4
3.6.2 Design life of the building shall be a minimum of ten years.
3.7 Identification'
A permanent nameplate shall be furnished to be attached to the outside
of the building which will provide, as a minimum, the following information:
a. Contract title:
b. Contract number:
C. Contractor's name:
d. Date of delivery:
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Unless otherwise specified in the contract the supplier is responsible
for the performance of all inspection requirements as specified herein.
The government reserves the right to perform any of the inspections set
forth in this specification where such inspections are deemed necessary to
assure supplies and services conform to prescribed requirements. All work
done by the contractor shall be subject to inspection and acceptance by a
government inspector.
4.2 Upon receipt at Tooele Army Depot, South Area, the. building components
shall be subjected to critical visual inspection to determine if discrepancies
or variances from these specifications can be determined. Further testing
will consist of successful erection' of the building. Acceptance of the
completed building shall follow the final acceptance inspection by a govern-
ment inspector and written indication by this inspector that all aspects
of the contract have been completed.
5.0 DELIVERY AND STORAGE
5.1 This building shall be packaged, secured and handled so as to ensure
5
safe domestic transportation by common or other carrier at the lowest rate
to Tooele Army Depot, Utah. The contractor shall be responsible for the
building FOB Tooele Army Depot (South Area). The building shall be
delivered to the construction site not later than 14 weeks after award
of contract, and the building and contract" completed not later than 24
weeks after award of contract.
5.2 The contractor shall mark the crated building for delivery to:,*
Commander
Tooele Army Depot (South Area)
ATTN: AMXTE-AE0, Project T-172
Tooele, UT 84074
The contractor shall alert Tooele Army Depot that the building i8
being shipped. Notification of the estimated arrival time shall be -
addressed to: .-
Commander
Tooele Army Depot
ATTN: AMXTE-AE0X, Project'T-172, Mr. Larry Johnson
Tooele, UT 84074
5.3 Three copies of all construction data, ihcluding drawings and manuals
shall be forwarded to the following address at least two weeks prior to
shipment of the building:
Commander
Tooele Army Depot
ATTN: AMXTE-AEO, James M. Jensen
Tooele, UT 84074,
5.4 On-site Storage
All building materials will be delivered to the location specified
above in a dry and undamaged condition and stored out of contact with the
ground. Materials other than framing and structural members shall be
6
4
covered with watertight coverings and kept dry. Storage accommodations
for roof and wall panelinj shall provide good air circulation .and pro-
tection from surface staihing.
6.0 NOTES
The contractor will e responsible for obtaining, transporting to
the construction site, and off-loading at the construction site of all,
building components and building materials.
I'I
A " . • 2 ;
h
.2 , -
CAMDS SPECIFICATION
FOR
UPA AIRLOCK
SPECIFICATION
NO. 01-03
NO DATE
CPT DOUGLAS W. ROBB
SCHEMICAL AGENT/MUNITIONS DIPOSAL SYSTE
CANDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
ill DlAI06llili0i1 0-itIIIII i IDA358208 A01 601 -1
AMM4NITION EQUIPMT OFFICE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOTTOOELE, UTAH 84O74
AE0 SPECIFICATION FOR
UPA AIRLOCK
PRE9PAED BY CONCURRED BY:
CPT DOUGIAS W. REBB F D L. HALE
Civil Egineer Chief, RT&M Branch
REVID•WD BY: APPROVED BY:
ROBERT C. SMEVIS T
Actg Ch, Chem Sys Engr Br Chief, Aumo Equip Office
I _ _ _ _
SPCFCATION FOR TH UNPACK AREA
1.0 SCOPE
This specification covers the requirement for construction of a
6" thick, lf' - 0" by 10' - 0" reinforced concrete pad, procurement
and installation of a 14' - 0" by 24' - 0" by 14' 0" high steel
canopy cover, and of a 4W00 pound capacity electric hoist mounted on
a 10' - 0" high and 17' -6" long monorail with all necessary component
parts (including reinforced concrete foundations) to form a complete
system except as specifically noted in the following paragraphs. All
material shall be new, unused and free from defects and imperfections,
and fabricated with good workmanship. The Contractor shall be respon-
sible for obtaining, transporting to the construction site, off-loading
and storing all shroud components and other building materials. The"
canopy roof consists of a 1/2" per foot pitch roof attached to and sup-'
ported by the existing A1CO pre-engineered building at the eaves and
supported by corner columns at the other end. The cover will be fur-
nished without walls.
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 The following drawings form part of this specification (copies
attached).
2.1.1 UPA Airlock Modification, Concrete and Steel Layout, TCDS 1705-24,
Sheet I of 1.
2.2 The following documents (of most recent issue) form a part of this
specification.
2.2.1 Department of the Army Guide Specifications for Military Construc-
tion; "Metal Buildings", Specification No. C.E. 201.01.
2.2.2 American Institute of Steel Construction (AICS) publication;
"Steel Construction Manual".
2.2.3 American Concrete Institute (ACI) publication; "Building Code
Requirements for Reinforced Concrete (ACI Standard 318-63)."
2.2.4 National Electrical Contractors Association publications; "National
Electrical Code", current edition.
3.0 REQUIREMTS
3.1 General Requirements: Supply and erect a 24' - 0" long by 14' - 0"
wide extension to the existing 24' 0" wide, 14' - 0" high (eave height)
AL$0 Stadard S-2 preengi.neered buildi~ng lc~ated at the CA14L Sie
South Area, Tooele Army t he extension, consisting of a roof
onl7 shall be attached at eave height o the east side of the Unpack
Area housing. The roof shall. pitch out away from the building while
maintaining clearance for the 12' - 0" high, monorail mounted 4000
electric hoist. The roof will be designed for a minimum of 30 PSF
live load in addition to the structural dead load. The Contractor
shall procure and install the electric hoist after fabricating and
erecting the monorail and supporting members (including the reinforced
concrete foundation). The Contractor shall also construct the 6" thick,
10' - O" by n1' - 6" reinforced concrete pad and repair the existing
asphalt parking area upon which the extension will be -laced.
3.2 Concrete Requirements:
3.2.1 The reinforced concrete pad and four column foundations shall be
constructed by the Contractor in accordance with the referenced drawing
TCDS 1705-24 and erection instructions accompanying the steel structure.
A concrete with a minimum 28 day compressive strength of 3000 psi shall
be used. Concrete shall not be less than a six bag mix. Maximum slu*p
shall be four inches. The finished surface shall be free from aggregate
pockets or honeycombs. Where minor defects exist they shall be repaired
while the concrete is still green by painting with a neat cement grout,
and patched with a cement, white silica sand, and anti-hydro mixture.
All ties, wires, nails, etc., shall be out off at least 1/4" below the
surface and the holes patched as described above. The Contractor will
notify the Government forty-eight hours in advance of placing any con-
crete. No concrete shall be placed until the forms and reinforcing steel
have been inspected and approved in writinýj by a Government inspector.
No concrete shall be placed unless a Government inspector is present.,
Concrete specimens shall be taken and tested at the expense of the
Government.
3.2.2 All anchor bolts shall be 1' - 2" long, threaded, T" in diameter,
of black steel, unpainted and conforming to ASTM Standard A-307. Anchor
bolts shall be supplied with washers and nuts. The anchor bolts shall be
accurately set by teuplate while the concrete is in a plastic state. The
use of drive-in or powder activated anchors is not allowed.
3.3 Roof Requirements: The roof covering shall be of not less than
24 US gage, enamel-coated galvanized steel panels of such configuration
as to provide a minimum of 30 PSF live load and 20 PSF wind load in
addition to the structural dead load. The roof will be attached to the
existing ARMCO Standard S-2 pre-englneereC building at the eaves and will
rest on structural steel supporting the electrical hoisl. at the other end.
3.4 Electric Hoist Requirements:
3.4.1 The Contractor shall provide and install a 4000 pound lifting
capacity, single speed, electric wire-rope monorail hoist with a hand-
geared trolley. Hoist will be able to lift 4000 pounds a distance of
2
10 feet anld then be able to be moved whil~e so loaded a distance of 2.7'
hori~pntally by~ one man. The hoist ~will) be compatible with the 18V17'
strurtural steel monorail and frame to be constructed by the Contractor.
Ellectric motor will be protected by an upper lilmit switch and will in-
Elude an elmtro-mecharnmc•l holding brake. Hoist will be provided with
wire rope and a high-tensile safety hook.
3.4.2 The Contractor shall provide, fabricate and install the supporting
frame for the electric wire rope hoist. All structural members, bearing
plates, etc., shall be fabricated from A3STM A36 structural steel. Bolts
shall be ASTM A307, and shall be provided with compatible nuts and washers.
3.5 Asphalt Repair Requirements: Upon completion of the reinforced con-
crete pad and foundations, the Contractor shall restore the integrity of
the existing asphalt pavement and drainage pattern. Hot mix asphalt shall
be used. Mixed in place or cold asphalt mixtures are not acceptable.
3.6 Finishing and Maintainability Requirements:
3.6.1 All structural steel shall be cleaned and painted as follows:
3.6.1.1 The surface shall be cleaned as specified in either SSPC-SP
2-63, "Hand Tool Cleaning"-or SSPC-SP 3-63, "Power Tool Cleaning" as
elected by the Contractor.
3.6.1.2 All paint shall be applied in accordance with SSPC-PA 1-64,
"Shop, Field and Maintenance Painting". A minimum of three coats shall
be applied. After cleaning, the steel shall be primed with one coat of
paint conforming with specification SSPC-Paint 14-64T, "Red Lead Iron
Oxide Linseed Oil Primer". After shipment, touch-up field painting shall
be performed in accordance with specification SSPC-PA 1-64; "Shop, Field
and Maintenance Painting", and in particular with Section 3.5.3 thereof
entitled "Field Painting". The intermediate cost shall conform with
Federal Specification TT-P-86C, "Paint, Red Lead Base, Ready-Mixed", Type
II, Red Lead, Mixed. Pigment-Alkyd Varnish Linseed Oil Paint; or AASHO
Designation M72-57, Type II, "Red Lead, Ready-Mixed Paint". The finish
coat of paint shall conform with specification SSPC-Paint 1O1-64T, "Alu-
minum Alkyd Paint", Type I. Leafing.
3.6.1.3 The dry film thickness of the paint at any point shall not be
less than the following: for the primer 1.7 mils; for the second coat
1.3 mils; for the finish coat 1.0 mils; for the three-coat paint system
4.0 mils.
3.6.2 The durability of the roof panels due to rupture, structural
failure or perforation shall be guaranteed for a period of ten years.
In addition, the factory applied enamel coating on the panels shall be
guaranteed for 10 years. A specimen copy of the guarantee shall accom-
pany the bid, clearly stating the conditions under which the guarantee
is valid.
3
-;four outdoor 40............ fout fixtures,
as indicated on TCDS 1705-24, Crouse Hinds FMR42403 or approved alter-
nate. All electrical fixtures, junction boxes, metal conduit, wiring,
switches, brackets and other necessary hardware shall be provided and
installed by the Contractor in accordance with the National Electrical
Code, refer to paragraph 2.2.4 of this specification.
3.7.2 All fixtures, junction boxes, switches, etc., shall be moisture
proof and connected by rigid steel conduit, All lights shall be provided
with lamps. Switches shall be one-way moisture proof, outdoor switches.
3.7.3 Fluorescent light fixtures shall be supplied with low temperature
ballasts capable of operating to minus 20°F.
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Unless otherwise specified in the contract, the Contractor is resion-
sible for the performance of all inspection and requirements as specified
herein. The Government reserves the right to perform any of the inspections
set forth in this specification where such inspections are deemed necessary
to assure supplies and services conform to the prescribed requirements.
All work done by the Contractor shall be subject to inspection and accept-
ance by Government inspector.
4.2 Acceptance of all components shall follow the final acceptance inspec-
tion by a Government inspector and written indication by this inspector
that all aspects of the contract have been completed.
5.0 DELIVERY AND STORAGE
All materials shall be delivered to the following acdiress:
Commander
Tooele Army Depot South Area
ATTN: CAMDIX Engineer
Tooele, Utah 84074
The Contractor shall be responsible for transportation to the site,
off-loading and storage.
.44
15 October 1973
SPECIFICATION FOR THE EXPLOSION
CONTAII41ENT CUBICLE HOUSINGS
PREPARED BY: REVIEWED BY:
rs Qx, 12 j/
~4E ~4 ~OSEPH L. PAUCR! -
Mechanical Engineer h, RP&M Branch
CONCURRED BY : APPROVED BY:
,T',,& K. CLUFF F. H. CRIST
Electrical Enee YZCh, Ammo Equip Office
J.S, PAULICK
Ct 11 Engineering Se1
iD 2 DA01i III015-IDA358 35 - A01 601 1
SPECIFICATION FOR THE EXPLOSION
CONTAINMENT CUBICLE HOUSINGS
1.0 SCOPE
This specification covers the requirements for a standard self-framing
steel housing to enclose an existing explosion containment cubicle founda-
tion (ECC). This specification also covers the requirements for the EOC
end panel housing which connects the ECC housing to the unpack area
housing. Both the ECC housing and the ECC end panel housing will be
located at the CAMDS site, South Ares, Tooele Army Depot, Utah. This
project consists of extending the ECC concrete pad, construction of adequate
concrete foundations and curbs with anchor bolts set to specifications, and
erection of the ECC housing and ECC end panel housing around the ECC. The
contractor shall provide both housings complete with all necessary component
parts to form a complete housing system, except as noted in the following
paragraphs. Concrete work, unloading and erection of the housings shall be
the responsibility of the contractor with all unloading equipment, erection.
equipment, and services provided by the contractor. Housings shall contain
no heating, but electrical work to provide lighting, and installation of
wall liners with insulation will also be" performed by the contractor. The
electrical service panel will be furnished by the government. All other
electrical fixtures and equipment will be furnished by the contractor.
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 The following drawings form a part of this specification (copies
attached):
1
Drawing No. SK-T-172-706 (sheet L of 7): ECC Foundation
Drswing No. SK-T-172-706 (sheet 2 of 7): ECC Foundation
Drawing No. SK-T-172-706 (sheet 3 of 7): ECC Housing Floor Plan
Drawing. No. SX-T"-72-706 (sheet. 4 of .71: ECC Housing .Elevations
Drawing No. SK-T-172-706 (sheet 5 of 7): ECC Foundation Detiels
Drawing No. SK-T-172-706 (sheet 6 of. 7): ECC Housing Electrical Details
Drawing No. SK-T-172-706 (sheet 7 of 7): ECC End Panel Housing Details
and Elevations
2.2, The following 4ocuments form a par# of this specification:
2.24L Department of the Army, Guide Specifications.for Military Construction:
"Metal Buildings," Specification. No. C.E. 201.01
"Structural Steel," Specification No. C.E. 214.oi
"Roofing and Siding, Protected Steel or Aluminum Coated Steel,"
Specification No. C.E. 222.01 end C.E. 222.07
* "Steel Doors and Frames," Specification No. C.E. 225.0?
2.2.2 American Institute of Steel Construction (A!SC), publication;
"Specifications for the Design, Fabrication and Erection of Structural
Steel Buildings."
2.2.3 American Welding Society (AWS), publications; "Code for Welding in
Building Construction, No. DI.0-69."
2.2.4 American Society of Henting, Refrigeration, and Air-Conditioning
Engineers (ASHAE) publications; "ASHRAE Handbook of Fundamentals."
2.2.5 NationaL Electric Code; Class I, Group D, Class I1, Group E, F, G.
3.0 REqUIREMENTS
2
3.1 General Requirements
The ECC housing will be of standard commercial design with outside wall
dimensions of 20'-0"' by 44'-O" and nominal wall height of 12'-0". The ECC
housing shall be free of structural obstructions within the walls. The
commercial structure will be one that has been designed for a minimum of 30
PSF live load and 20 PSF wind load in addition to the structural dead load.
The ECC end panel housing will be of standard commercial design with
outside wall dimensions of 616" by W5'-0" and nominal wall height of 10'-0".
T he ECC end panel. housing shall be free of structural obstructions within the
walls and shall be designed for a minimum of 30 PSF live load and 20 PSF wind
load in addition to the structural dead load.
3.2 Floor/Foundation Requirements
3.2.1 The additional reinforced concrete floor and foundation will be con-
structed by the contractor in accordance with the referenced drawings and
erection instructions accompanying the steel structures. Sheet I and 2 of
the referenced drawings detail the existing slab; sheet 5 details concrete
work required. A concrete with a minimum twenty-eight day compressive
strength of 2500 psi will be used. Concrete will not be placed during
weather that will be detrimental to the proper hydration of the, concrete.
To assure proper curing a surface treatment will be required. For this
purpose an approved impervious coating will be applied directly upon the
concrete surface immediately following the completion of the finishing
operation.
3.2.2 A smooth finish will be required on the floor surface to facllitate
3
cleaning.
3.2.3 All necessary anchor bolts shall be accurately set by template
while the concrete is in a plastic state.
3.3 Wall and Ibof Requirements
3.3.1 Both housings shallbe designed and erected so as to be leek proof,
weather tight, and sealed, This includes
interfaces with all installed fixtures such 6s doors and utility inlets.
3.3.2 The ECO housing roof will be clear span, gable type, having a rise
of at least forty inches 4n the twenty foot width of the building.
The ECC end panel housing roof will be clear span, gable type, having
a rise of et least fifteen inches in the fifteen foot width of the building.
The roof will also be made easily removable in either two or four sections.
3.3.3 Walls on both housings will be lined and sealed on the interior side
to facilitate wash down.
3.4 Door Requirements
Doors will be fully compatible with the building system adopted and
will be sized as shown on the drawings. Two door openings are required on
the ends of the ECC housing but no doors are to be furnished. These door
openings shall have no ground level obstructions. The two swing doors
on the sides of the housing will swing out and each door shall have a
window in its' top section. There is no requirement for a key-type locking
device, however, a means for latching closed doors is required. Both swing
doors shall be equipped with penic hardware.
3.5 Insulation Requirement
4
Insulation for both housings shall be of sufficient thickness to
provide a coefficient of heat transmission, or U-value, not in excess of
.21 for walls and .07 for roof when determined for winter conditions in
accordance with recognized methods. Insulation used will be of the non-
combustible rigid fiber glass board type laminated to interior wall panels.
Insulation shall not crack, lose bond, or otherwise fail due to deflections,
temperature changes, or adverse humidity conditions. The interior wall
panels shall have a flame spread rating not in excess of twenty-five and a
smoke developed rating not in excess of fifteen when tested by the methods
of ASTM Specification No. E84.
3.6 Finishing and Maintainability Requirements
3.6.1 The walls, roof, doors, all flashing, interior wall panels, or other
portions of both housings which either face the outdoors or form part of
the inner surfaces shall be protected by acrylic plastic-base enamel (or
equivalent) paint. Gutters and down-spouting can be either galvanized or
painted. The predominant outside color for the walls and doors shall be of
a light green color. The door frames and other fascia shall be painted to
match adjacent surfaces.
3.6.2 Design life of the housings shall be a minimum of ten years.
3.7 Identification
A permanent nameplate shall be furnished to be attached to the outside
of the housings which will provide, as a minimum, the following informotion:
a. Contract title:
b. Contract number:
5
c. Contractor's name:
d, Date of delivery:
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PH)VISIONS
4.1 Unless otherwise specified in the contract the supplier is responsible
for the performance of all inspection requirements as specified herein.
The government reserves the right to perform any of the inspections set
forth in this specification where such inspections are deemed necessary to
assure supplies and services conform to prescribed requirements. All work
done by the contractor shall be subject to inspection and acceptance by a
government inspector.
4.2 Upon receipt at Tooele Army Depot, South Area, the components of the
housings shall be subjected to critical visual inspection to determine if
discrepancies or variances from these specifications can be determined.
Further testing will consist of successful erection of the housings.
Acceptance of the completed housings shall follow the final acceptance
inspection by a government inspector and written indication by this
inspector that all aspects of the contract have been completed.
5.0 DELIVERY AND STORAGE
5.1 The housings shall be packaged, secured and handled so as to ensure
safe domestic transportation by common or other carrier at the lowest rate
to Tooele Army Depot, Utah. The contractor shall be responsible for the
housings FOB Tooele Army Depot (South Area). The housings shall be delivered
to the construction site not later than 14 weeks after award of contract,
and the housings and contract completed not later than 24 weeks after award
6
of contract.
5.2 The contractor shall mark the crated housings for delivery to:
Commander
Tooele Army Depot (South Area)
ATTN: AMXTE-AEO, Project T-172
Tooele, UT 84074
The contractor shall alert Tobele Army Depot that the housings are
being shipped. Notification of the estimated arrival time shall be
addressed to:
Commander
Tooele Army Depot
ATTN: AMAXTE-AEO, Project T-172, Mir. Larry Johnson
Tooele, UT 84074
5.3 Three copies of all construction data,. including drawings and manuals
shall be forwarded to the following address at least two weeks prior to
shipment of the housings:
Commander
Tooele Armyr Depot
ATTN: AMXTE-Am0, James M. Jensen
Tooele, UT 84074
5.4 On-site Storage
All building materials will be delivered to the location specified
above in a dry and undamaged condition and stored out of contact with the
ground. Materials other than framing and structural members shall be
covered with watertight coverings and kept dry. Storage accommodations
for roof and wall peneling shall provide good air circulation and pi&-tection
from surface staining.
6.o NOTES
7
The contractor will be-responsible for obtaining, transporting to
the construction site, and off-loading at the construction site of all
components of the housings and building materials.
8
SPECIFICATION
FOR
CONSTRUCTION OF FOUNDATION
MODIFICATION FOR
EXPLOSIVE CONATINMENT CELL #2
NO. 02-02
JUNE 1978
AEO
' CHEMICAL AGENT/MUNITIONS DISPOSAL SYSTEM
CAMDS DIRECTORATE.
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
DA358237 DA01 6017-1
AEO SPECIFICATION NO -- 7
AMMlUNITION EQUrPMENIT OFFICE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOiEL, UTAH 84074
CONSTRUCTION OF FOUNDATION
MODIFICATION FOR
EXPLOSIVE CONTAINMENT CELL #2
PREPARED BY: REVIEWED BY:
mw NEIL i ,,.x HY
Civil Engineer Ch, Chem Sys Engr Br.
CONCURRED: FRED L. HALE "
Ch., RT&M Branch
CANDS Project Engin - APPROVED BY:
BILL DARLING 7 - Xh 1. CR1ST
CAMSD Poject Coordinator h, Amno Equip Office
1.0 SCOPE
Contractor shall supply personnel, materials, and equipment to construct
modifications to one reinforced concrete foundation for a Chemical Agent
Munitions Demilitarization System Explosive Containment Cell. This is to
be a test fixture for pressure testing and internal explosion testing of
the unit. In addition to the reinforced concrete, a guard railing for
personnel is to be supplied and installed by the contractor.
2. 0 APPLICABLE DOCUMMTS:
2.1 Drawings:
Drawing Sheet Revision Dated
T-172-924 6 0 25 Apr 78
T-172-924 4 0 19 May 75 (reference only)
T-172-924 5 0 20 May 75 (reference only)
2.2 American Concrete Institute (ACI), Standards:
ACI 315-65PR. Manual of Standard Practice for Detailing Re-
inforced Concrete Structures (5th Edition, 1970)
ACI 318-71 Building Code Requirements for Reinforced
Concrete, with Commentary.
2.3 American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), publication:
C 94-73a. Ready-Mixed Concrete
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 Services to be performed.
3.1.1 The contractor will furnish necessary personnel, materials,
supplies and equipment to modify one reinforced concrete foundation for
a CAMSD Explosive Containment Cell. Excavation and site preparation, as
well as backfill and site cleanup, are the responsibility of the contractor.
In addition, the contractor will supply and install guard rails for per-
sonnel protection.
3.2 Responsibilities:
3.2.1 The government will provide a set of drawings showing
work to be performed.,
3.2.2 The contractor will secure all materials.
3.2.3 The contractor will be responsible for transporting all
materials to, and off-loading such material at the construction site.
3.2.4 Because the location of the worksite is within proximity
of a toxic storage facility, the contractor is required to comply with
existing security and surety regulations. These regulations require a
contractor vehicle safety inspection (performed by the government), con-
tractor vehicles must be equipped with fire extinguishers, employees
require a government-furnished pass for entrance to the site each day.
It is also required that each person entering the area be provided with
a gas mask (by the government), and be clean shaven to allow proper seal
of the mask. Mustacheusnd sideburns of moderate length are permissible.
Gas masks need not be worn in the area, and are issued only as a pre-
cautionary measure.
3, 3.2.5 The government will provide, upon request, following
award, any additional unclassified information, reports, and drawings
that the contractor may deem necessary to enable him to successfully per-
form his task.
3.3 Materials
3.3.1 Storage: Materials shall be stored so as not to deteriorate
or become contaminated. Cement will be stored in a dry, weather-tight
structure, properly ventilated. Aggregate will be stored to assure good
drainage, gradiation preservation, and to preclude inclusion of foreign
matter.
2
3.3.2 Materials shall conform to the requirements specified below:
a. Anchorage items for anchoring work of other trades to
concrete shall be of standard manufacture and of types to engage with anchors
provided and installed under other sections. Bolts will be high strength
bolts in accordance with ABTM - A449.
b. Concrete materials: ASTM C 94., cement type optional.
Only one brand of any one type of cement shall be used for exposed concrete
surfaces of any individual structure. Coarse aggregate shall be of one maxi-
mum size the least of the following: 1/5 the narrowest dimension of the
member, 3/4 the minimum clear spacing between reinforcing bars or between
bars and forms, or 1/3 the slab depth.
c. Absorptive materials: Burlap, Jute, or fabric-type mats.
d. Imperqous-sheettmaterials: Liquid of coamercial for-
mulation, sprayable and nontoxic, that will form a film highly resistant to
moisture loss from concrete while curing and will dry within 4 hours. Com-
pound shall be clear with fugitive dye, pigmented, resin-base, or chlorinated-
rubber-base type as required.
f. Form coating: Nonstaining form oil or form release
agent that will not deletoriously affect concrete surfaces nor impair sub-
sequent applications.
g. Form materials: For exposed or painted surfaces, ply-
wood or hardboard especially made for concrete form use. For unexposed
surfaces, sound, tight lumber shall be used. Other materials may be used
that will produce the specified Joint requirements and finishes without
adversely affecting the concrete surfaces.
3
h. rties': Metal, factory-fabricated removable or
snap-off, that will leave holes 1/2 to 1 inch in diameter and not less
than 1 1/2 inches deep in surfaces to be exposed or painted and shall not
prOJect beyond the concrete elsewhere.
i. Joint sealant: Hot or cold-applied, made specifically
for sealing joints in concrete against moisture infiltration.
J. Perimeter insulation: Rigid board of mineral wool,
cellular glass, polystyrene, or urethane, 1-inch minimum nominal thickness.
k. Reinforcement: Bars shall be deformed, ASTM A615 grade
40 billet or axle steel, or grade 50 rail steel. Mesh shall be welded steel
wire fabric with wires at right angles to each other.
1. Tie bars: As specified for reinforcement bars.
m. Vapor barrier: Polyethylene, 6-mil minimum nominal
thickness.
3.3.3 Concrete Quality: Proportioning of concrete mixes to meet
the requirements specified below shall be the Contractor 's responsibility.
a. Compressive strength in 28 days shall be 3,000 psi for
reinforced concrete and 2,500 psi for nonreinforced concrete unless otherwise
shown or specified. The compressive strengths shall be reached in 7 days
when high-early-strength cement is used.
b. Entrained-air content of exposed exterior concrete shall
be maintained at 5 to 7 percent by volume of concrete.
c. Slump shall be 3 to 4 inches for walls and 2 to 3 inches
for other work.
14
3.4 FORWORK shall provide concrete members conforming accurately to
the indicated shapes, lines, and dimensions and with surfaces free of off-
set, waviness, or bulges. Where surfaces are to be exposed or painted,
panels shall be manufacturer's stock size material, using smaller panels
cut to required dimensions only where required by openings and Joints.
Panel Joints in exposed or painted work shall occur at control Joints,
including alinement with masonry control Joints and construction joints,
and shall be finished smooth where to be in contact with concrete . Ex-
posed corners shall be chamfered, beveled, or rounded by moldings placed
in the forms. Surfaces shall be thoroughly cleaned and coated before each
use. Material that will impair texture or finish of concrete surfaces
shall not be used. Forms shall be removed at a time and in a manner that
will not injure the concrete.
3.5 Reinforcement: Detailing and placement, including supports and
concrete protection for reinforcement, shall conform to ACI 315 except as
indicated or specified otherwise.
3.5.1 Except as noted, concrete cover for all reinforcement shall
be 2 inches.
3.5.2 Except as noted, all reinforcement shall be continuous.
3.5.3 Dowels and tie bars in slabs on grade shall be installed
at right angles to joints, accurately alined parallel to the finished sur-
face, and rigidly held in place and supported during concrete placement.
One end of dowels shall be oiled or greased.
5
3.6 PLACING: Concrete footings and exterior slabs shall be placed
upon clean undisturbed surfaces free from frost, ice, and water. Dry or
pervious surfaces recieving concrete shall be covered with impervious sheet
materials specified for curing except that materials need not be White.
Concrete may be placed directly on impervious surfaces that are thoroughly
moistened but not muddy. Concrete shall be placed in layers not over 12
inches deep except in walls. The embedment of conduits and pipes in con-
crete shall be avoided unless embedment is specifically indicated. Concrete
shall be protected from freezing. Concrete to receive other construction
shall be screened to the proper level.
3.7 CONSOLIM•TION OF CONCRETE shall be with internal concrete vibrators
supplemented by handspading, rodding, and tamping. Vibrating equipment shall
be adequate to thoroughly consolidate the concrete.
3.8 SLABS ON MMAE:
3.8.1 Vapor barrier: Surfaces receiving concrete for slabs within
the building shall be covered with a vapor barrier lapped a minimum of 4
inches at edges and ends.
3.8.2 Concrete shall be compacted, screeded to grade, and prepared
for trowel finish. Slabs shall be placed in panels in alternate checker-
board pattern or in alternate lanes divided into panels. Each panel shall
be approximately square terminated by slab Joints so as to be not over 600
square feet in area and with sides not over 25 feet long.
3.8.3 Contraction Joints shall be true to line, 1/8 inch wide, and
of depth equal to approximately 1/4 of the slab thickness. Joints shall be
sawed or formed by inserting fiberboard strips of the rqquired dimensions
after placing concrete. Vertical construction Joints shall not be permitted.
6
3.8.4 Sealing: Joints in permanently exposed slabs shall be
filled with joint sealant.
309 FINISHES OF CONCRETE OTHm THAN SLABS: Fins and loose material
shall be removed. Unsound concrete, voids over 1/2 inch in diameter, and
tie-rod and bolt holes shall be cut back to solid concrete, reamed, brush-
coated with cement grout, and filled solid with a stiff portland-cement.
sand mortar mix. Patchwork shall finish flush with adjoining concrete
surfaces and where exposed, shall match adjoining surfaces in texture and
color. Patchwork shall be cured for 72 hours. White portland cement shall
be used as needed to attain color match.
3.9.1 Smooth finish: After completing the above, vertical sur-
faces exposed to view shall be thoroughly wetted and then brush-coated with
portland-cement-sand grout of thick consistency and of mixture so that final
color will approximately match the concrete. White portlbnd cement shall be
used as needed to attain color match. Grout shall be cork - or wood-
floated to fill voids, excess scraped off with a trowel, and visible grout
film removed by rubbing with burlap. Grout shall be kept damp until set.
3.10 CONCRETE SLAB FINISHES shall be true planes with no deviation ex-
ceeding 1/8 inch when tested with a 10-foot straightedge. Surfaces shall
be pitched to drains. Surfaces shall be screeded and floated and trowelled,
with no coarse aggregate visible before finishing as specified below.
3.10.1 Monolithic finish shall be given to slabs unless other-
wise specified. After the surface moisture has disappeared, floated-
surfaces shall be steel-troweled to a smooth, even dense finish free from
blemish including trowel marks.
7
3.11 CURING Ahall start as soon as free water has disappeared from
concrete surfaces after placing and finishing. Curing materials shall be
applied and maintained so as to protect the concrete from moisture loss.
Water used in curing shall be potable. Curing shall be accomplished by one
of the following methods:
3.11.1 Moist curing: Unformed surfaces shall be covered with
absorptive materials wetted before placing. Absorptive materials or forms
used in curing shall be kept continually wet.
3.11.2 Impervious-sheet curing: Concrete surfaces shall be
thoroughly wetted and covered with impervious-sheet materials.
3.11.3 Meembrane-forming comud curin: The compound shall be
applied in a two-coat continuous operation, each coat applied at a coverage
of not more than 400 square feet per gallon and at right angles to each
other. Surfaces damaged during curing shall be resprayed at the above
rate. The compound shall not be used on surfaces receiving applications
depending on adhesion or bonding except that resin-base or chlorinated-
rubber-base compounds may be used on floors receiving resilient flooring.
Compounds on permanently exposed surfaces shall be clear type containing
a fugitive dye and sla ii be shaded from the sun while curing.
3.12 FIELD QUALITY-CONTROL TESTS: Sampling and preparation of test
specimens, shall be the Contractor's responsibility and shall be performed
at no additional cost to the Government. Specimens shall be made in accord-
ance with AST? C 31.
3.12.1 Slump and entrained-air content: Tests shall be performed
in the presence of the Contracting Officer. Test will be performed by
government personnel at government expense.
8
3.12.2 Compressive strength: Two test specimens shall be pre-
pared in the presence of the Contracting Officer. Tests shall be per-
formed by the government and at the expense of the government.
3.13 EXCAVATION, FILLING AND BACKFILLING
3.13.1 Applicable Publications
A. K4L-STD.691B Unified Soil Classification System
for Roads, Airfields, Embankments
and Foundations.
B. MIL-STD-621A Test Methods for Pavement Subgrade,
& Notices Subbase, and Base-Course Materials
I & 2.
3.13.2 Definitions
A. Satisfactory materialp include materials classified
in MIL-STD-619 as GW, GP, SW.
B. Unsatinfactor mater±juj include materials classified
in MIL-STD-619 as Pt, OH, OL.
C. Cohesionless and cohesive materials: Cohesionless
materials include materials classified in MIL-STD-619 as GW, GP, SW, and
SP. Cohesive materials include materials classified as GC, SC, M 9 CL,
MR4, and CH. Materials classified as GM and SM will be identified as co-
hesionless only when the fines have a plastic index of 0.
D. Degree of compaction requited is expressed as a per
centage of the maximum density obtained by the test procedure presented
in MIL-STD-621, Method 100, compaction effort designation CE 55, abbreviated
hereinafter as percent CE 55 maximum density.
9
3.13.3 Excavation
A. feneral: The excavation shall conform to the dimensions
and elevations indicated for the structure. Excavation shall extend a
sufficient distance from walls and footings to allow for placing and
removal of forms, installation ;of services, and for inspeclt on. Excava-
tions below indicated depths will not be permitted except to remove un-
satisfactory material. Unsatisfactory material encountered below the
grades shown shall be removed as directed and replaced with satisfactory
material (payment therefore will be made in conformance with the CHANGES
clause of the GENERAL PROVISIONS). Satisfactory material removed below
the depths indicated without specific direction of the Contracting Officer
shall be replaced at no additional cost to the Government, to the indicated
excavation grade with satisfactory materials, except that concrete footings
shall be increased in thickness to the bottom of the overdepth excavations
and overbreak in rock excavation. Satisfactory material shall be placed
and compacted as specified in paragraph BACKFILLING. Determination of
elevations and measurements of approved overdepth excavation of unsatis-
factory material below grades indicated shall be done under the direction
of the Contracting Officer.
B. Drainage. Excavation shall be performed so that the
area of the site and the area immediately surrounding the site and affect-
ing operations at the site will be continually and effectively drained.
Water shall not be permitted to accumulate in crawl-space areas and in the
excavation. The excavation shall be drained by pumping or other satisfactory
10
methods to prevent softening of the foundation bottom, undercutting of
footings, or other actions detrimental to proper construction procedures.
C. Shoring, including sheet piling, shall be furnished
and installed as necessary to protect workmen, banks, adjacent paving,
structures, and utilities. Shoring, bracing, and sheeting shall be
removed as excavations are backfilled, in a manner to prevent caving.
3.13.4 Borrow: Where satisfactory materials are not available
in sufficient quantity from required excavations, approved materials
shall be obtained from approved sources outside the limits of Government-
controlled land at the Contractor's responsibility. The necessary clearing
and grubbing of borrow areas, disposal and, where permitted, burning of
debris therefrom, the developing of sources including any access roads for
hauling and the necessary right of way, and the satisfactory drainage
of the borrow areas shall be considered as incidental items to borrow
excavation. Six inches (min.) of gravel material will be used directly
under slab. Acquisition of this material is the contractor's responsibility.
3.13.5 Excavated materials: Satisfactory excavated material re-
quired for fill or backfill shall be placed in the proper section of the
permanent work required under this section or shall be separately stock-
piled if it cannot be readily placed. Satisfactory material in excess
of that required for the permanent work and unsatisfactory material shall
be disposed of in designated spoil areas.
3.13.6 Final grade of surfaces to support concrete:
A. Other than rock: Care shall be taken not to disturb
the bottom of the excavation. Excavation to final grade shall not be made
until Just before concrete is to be placed.
11
3.13.7 FILLING AND SUBGRADE PREPARATION
A. *Satisfactory materials shall be used in bringing fills
to the lines and grades indicated and for replacing unsatisfactory material.
Satisfactory material shall be free from roots and other organic matter,
trash, debris, frozen materials, and stones larger than 3 inches in any
dimension.
B. Preparation of ground surfaces: Unsatisfactory material
in surfaces to receive fill or in excavated areas shall be removed and re-
placed with satisfactory materials. The surface shall be scarified to a
depth of 6 inches before the fill is started. Sloped surfaces steeper than
I vertical to 4 horizontal shall be plowed, stepped, benched, or broken up
so that the fill material will bond with the existing material. When sub-
grades are of less than the specified density, the ground surface shall be
broken up to a minimum depth of 6 inches, pulverized, and compacted to the
specified density. When the subgrade is part fill and part excavation
or natural ground, the excavated or natural ground portion shall be scari-
fied to a depth of 12 inches and compacted as specified for the adjacent
fill. The placing of satisfactory materials and compaction shall be as
paragraph BACKMIING.
3.13.8 CAPILLARY WATER BARRIER under concrete floor and area-wVy
slabs on grade shall consist of clean, crushed, nonporous rock, crushed
gravel, or uncrushed gravel. The maximum particle size shall be 1-1/2
inches and no nore than 2 percent by weight shall pass the No. 4 sieve size.
The capillary water barrier shall be placed directly on the subgrade meeting
density and elevation requirements. The barrier shall be constructed to
12
the thickness shown in layers not exceeding 4 inches in compacted thickness.
Each layer shall be compacted with a minimum of two passes of a hand-
operated plate-type vibratory compactor.
3.13.9 BACKFILLING shall not begin until construction below
finish grade has been approved, tested, forms removed, and the excavation
cleaned of trash and debris. Backfill shall be brought to indicated finish
grade. Backfill shall not be placed in wet or frozen areas. Material
shall be moistened or aerated as necessary to provide the moisture content
that will readily facilitate obtaining the specified compaction with the
equipment used. Each layer shall be compacted to not less than the per-
centage of maximum density specified below:
Percent CE 55
maximum density
Cohesive Cohesionless
Material Material
Fill, Embankment, and Backfill
Under proposed structures, building
slabs, steps, and paved areas 90 95
Under sidevalks and grassed areas 85 90
Subgrade
Under building slabs, steps, and paved
areas, top 12 inches 90 95
Heavy equipment for spreading and compacting backfill shall not be
operated closer to foundation or retaining walls than a distance equal
to the height of backfill above the top of footing; the area remaining
13
shall be compacted in layers not more than 4 inches in compacted thick-
ness with power-driven hand tampevs suitable for the material being com-
pacted. Backfill shall not be placed against foundation Vals prior to
7 days after completion of the walls. As far as practicable, backfill
shall be brought up evenly on each side of the wall and sloped to drain
away from the wall.
3.13.10 PROTECTION: Settlement or washing that occurs in
graded, (top-soiled), or backfilled areas prior to acceptance of the work
shall be repaired and grades reestablished to the required elevations and
slopýs. All areas are to be maintained free of trash and debris until
final inspection has been completed and the work has been accepted.
4.0 sTEELWORK
4.1 Applicable Publications
ASTM Specification A36, Structural Steel
ASTM Specification A307, Grade A, Nuts and Bolts
American Institute of Steel Construction (AISC) publication:Specification fot the Design, Fabrication & Erection ofStructural Steel for Buildings (February 12, 1969). WithCommentary, Supplement No. 1 (November 1, 1970), & Supple-ment No. 2 (December 8, 1971).
4.2 Fabrication: Structural steelwork material shall be in accordance
with the applicable provisions of the AISC Specification: Fabrication and
assembly shall be done in the shop to the greatest extent possible. Struc-
tural steelvork, except surfaces of steel to be encased in concrete, and
surfaces to be field welded, shall be prepared for painting with a primer
compatible with epoxy type finish coats.
14
4.3 ERECTION: The erection of structural steel shall be in accor-
dance with the applicable provisions of the AISC Specification.
4.3.1 Connections: Anchor bolts and other comnections between
the structural steel and foundations shall be provided and shall be pro-
perly located and built into connecting work.
4.3.2 All expansion bolts shall be Philips Red Read or equal.
4.4 Responsibility for errors: The Contractor shall be responsible
for all errors of detailing, fabrication, and for the correct fitting of
the structural members.
5.0 QUALT ASSURAIM
5.1 General: Visual on-site inspection shall be performed by Tooele
Army Depot personnel to insure conformance to the requirements of this
specification.
5.2 Rejection: In the event test specimens fail in laboratory tests
to meet specifications, the contractor has two options:
5.2.1 Option 1: Contractor shall, at his expense, determine
the limits of substandard construction and replace same with construction
meeting these specifications.
5.2.2 Option 2: Contractor shall, at his expense, arrange on-
site load testing to assure the government standards were, in fact, met.
5.3 Slump tests will be performed at time of placement. If measured
slump falls outside specified limits (ASTM C914, Paragraph 5) a check test
shall be performed immediately from another portion of the same load. In
the event of a second failure the load will be rejected. The rejected load
will be disposed of outside government reservation at contractor's expense.
15
6.0 PAYmET
6.1 A partial payment of 39% of the contract cost will be made upon
completion of earthwork for foundation slab to rest upon. The only other
authorized payment will be made after successful completion of all work
and testing.
7.0 CONSTRUCTION SCHDULE:
Award of Contract Approximately 1 June
Finish Construction Award Date + 45 days
16
SPECIFICATION
FOR
ECC PIT LIGHTS
SPEC. NO. 02-03
23 Ap't• 1979
JAY NIELSON
CHEMICAL AGENTIMUNITIONS DISPOSAL SYS J
CAMDS DIRECTORATE.
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
D A3 I 0III I DIAIII  III IIDA358240 DA01 6020-1
I CAMUS ENGINEETRING
ECC PIT LIGHTS
Job Request No. ED-818 Rev A.
Contract No. DAAG 49-79-C-0064
April 23, 1979
Prepared by Engineering Consortium
Jay Nielson
Leonard W. McCosh, P.E.
Project Engineer
I Engineering Consortium P _=
Engineers- Planners .Consultants
______ SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH -Ph.18011 363-0336 _..
Engineering Consortium April 20, 1979
Job Order Req ED 818
EC Job 23-910
I
To: Dennis Bodrero
ISubject: ECC Pit Lighting
This report summarizes the findings of an analysis made by
Engineering Consortium in behalf of Tooele Ordinance Depot;
CAMDS Engineering Team.
IIntroduction
*Five considerations were specified for this analysis:
1. The installation must meet NEC class 2, Division 2,
Group E specifications.
2. The installation must consider the low headroom in
the ECC pit.
3. Achieve 50 fc illumination.
4. Minimize interference.
5. Provide for long life and low maintenance.
Each of these considerations are addressed in the report which
follows.
1. NEC class II, Division 2, Group E.
This requirement is imposed because of the analysis con-
ducted by TAD safety personnel. The pit area is subject
to an accumulation of potentially explosive dust ori-
ginating from the ECC cutting operations. NEC class II
prohibits the installation of light fixtures which could
serve as an ignition source. Group E dust type is speci-
fied due to the composition of the explosives used in the
M55 rockets and was not specified in the requirements
list (Group E dust is specified to be of metallic and
chemical composition as opposed to grain dust and other
similar industrials dupts).
I
I
I
Three light fixtures have been identified:
- Crouse-Hinds EVF 2208-S369
Appleton ARS 240-118 EFP 248
- Crouse-Hinds EVFD R2207-KIT40
Specification data sheets for each fixture have been attach-
ed as supplements to this report. Cost data obtained at the
time of this report indicates prices for each of these fix-
tures is approximately the same and will run about $1000.00per fixture with discounts available running as high as 46%.
2. Low Headroom.
Headroom in the East - West pit area is 7'5" and is, there-
fore, only 7" less than the average room height. As shown
in the attached drawing the placement of the fixtures against
the north wall and extending down less than 12" will not
cause interference with maintenance personnel.. However,
shock mounts are specified for these fixtures to absorb
impact from below and vibration from the conveyors above.
Headroom in the North - South pit area is 5'5" to the lower
extremity of the ECC vessel. Again the fixtures will be
placed against the wall an above the existing pump table.
This installation will require attachment to the ribs of
the ECC support structure. (No attachment is made to the
containment vessel itself).
The flourescent fixtures can be installed without shock
absorbers which would result in still less headroom re-
quirement. Without this special mount the fixtures will
require about 8" of headroom. In either case the fixtures
will be mounted out of the way of maintenance personnel
and will be a significant improvement over existing light-
ing. Note - These fixtures are equipped with heavy glass
protection which also serves to provide a complete water-
proof seal.
3. 50 foot cundle illumination.
This specification was incomplete as given, since the
illumination level is not referenced to a specific dis-
tance from the light source. It is assumed that the re-
ference level refers to a height about 3 feet from the
floor midway between the long walls of each pit area, i.e.,
the East - West trench and the North - South trench.
The calculated illumination at 1 foot from the specified
fixtures is 150 fe. With a reflectance of about 50% from
the concrete walls and an estimated distance from the fix-
tures of 4 feet the light intensity will be about 40-50 fc.
Using the silicon diode imaging tube in the COHU camera,
this light level is deemed more than adequate and will be
considerably better than the light levels found in most
working areas such as modern office space.
The fluorescent fixtures will further improve the overall
illumination of the maintenance areas by the elimination
or greatly softening of shadows throughout the pit area.
It is recommended that-the walls of the pit area be painted
with a cream colored flat textured wall paint to further
improve overall lighting. It is, however, desirable to
create a contrasting background color with respect to theDOE suit worn by the maintenance personnel. A specificpaint is not called out since no requirement is indicated.
The following data is given to support the recommended
improvement using paint.
RECOMMENDED SURFACE REFLECTANCES FOR AN OFFICE*
(1) Ceiling 80 to 92% (mat finish)
(2) Walls 40 to 60% (mat finish)
(3) Floor 21 to 39% (mat finish)
*20-50-fc can be related to normal desk and office type
work using local direct overhead ceiling fixtures.
Note: 10% less of contrast requires 15% more illumination
to obtain equal visibility.
Also attached are figures showing the improved spectral
response for flourscent lighting as opposed to incandes-
cents. Note also the relative response of the human eye.
4. TV Interference
The present installation of lights and the use of a vedio
camera tube combine to create severe glare and picture
bloom. The maintenance suite (DPE) being glossy whire with
a clear plastic head piece further aggravate this problem.
The TV picture is subject to rapid changes in contrast as
the maintenance personnel move about and is often unable
to pick up the needed detail because of overload bloom from
hot spots coming directly from the lights or reflected from
the plastic suit. The vidicon also exhibits a tendency to
etch or burn in static hot spots and thus permanently the
resultant imagery.
This general problem is greatly alleviated by the use of
a silicon imaging tube and will be helped by the use of
flourescent fixtures as well. The silicon diode tube is
not subject to image bum and does not bloom around the
hot spots as does the silicon. In addition the silicon
diode camera can be adjusted such that the iris or ALC is
sensitive only to large bright areas and will not react to
local hot spots thus preserving the desired contrast rat-
io in the overall picture. This results in a much improved
observation capability. The bright spots are allowed to
overdrive the local area but are contained such that bloom-
ing does not occur. If the imagery improvement is not
sufficient using a silicon tube and flourescent fixture
combination it will be necessary to install baffles over
the lighting fixtures such that the camera is shaded from
the direct source of light. If baffles are required it
is important that the resultant shading is controlled in
the longitudinal direction only. Lateral shading will
unnecessarily compromise the illumination along the far
wall and ceilings. If desired, the camera faceplate can
also be fitted with a polarizing filter which will great-
ly reduce reflected glare. A polarizing filter will also
reduce the light intensity at the camera faceplate by
about 60% and would further compromise a vidicon imaging
tube operation. Having an order of magnitude better
efficiency, the silicon tube will not be significantly
affected.
5. Low Maintenance.
Fluorescent lighting exhibits a life expentancy of up to
15,000 hours compared to 400 - 500 hours for incandes-
cents. In contained enviroments such as the Class II
enclosure, these bulbs may last only 100 - 200 hours.
The recommended fixture has a drop down feature for easy
tube replacement. For longest life these tubes should
be turned on and left on.
I 5IL-12
Fluorescent Photometric Data
Industrial Dimensions
Lighting Fixtures
For Marine Use Class I, Groups C, D
Crouse-Hinds Factory Sealed Class II, Groups E, F, G
.Fixture: EVFDR 224, 2208, 223, 226, 2207 Dimensions
i'Lamp: 2-40/T-1 2, 2-60/T-1 2, 2-110/fT-1 2' Zonal Degrees: 0-30 0-40 0-60 0-60 ..... , .'e. •* ZonalLumens: 1438 2406 4480 6878
'Total Bare Lamp Lumens: 8600
To determine number and placement of fixtures,
see Lighting Selector Guide, pages L-7 to L-1 2
T _." z,=,•n NOTE: All data provided lI ",, ,-.,
Sis fortwo 60 watt, T-12 -" 40
recessed contact 800MA 1o1S" I
, cool white lamps
!P-0- 73 ,04 (EVFDR226). For other
40-50 IOW 924 wattages use the,0.--• Do sit following conversion ".,... • ,i !70-W 708 ,Wt factors:
gQ-•47*:, EVFDR224 .73 Z ". .
EVFDR2208 .73;•,;.,;.-:S, EVFDR223 .70 3V. 3 .• ,'"".  .. . . ..i
" ' :"', EVFDR2207 1.45 ." . Y, :-.
-, '*, Example:Zonal lumens , "" : 
. . -,
: • ", 1.i ''" for E V FD R 226 fixture. .t ' ... ; ...... .~ across the axis, for 40-50.
is 1,060. Zonal lumens for
EVFDR223 fixture, across VC"
the axis. for40-50( is:
toefficlent of Utilization 1,060 x .70 = 742 : 
4; iI ffective Floor Cavity Reflectance 20% , - "% Reflectance Room Cavity Ratio 
' 1--.'Eff.Cell. Wall 1 2 3 4 5
50 1.726 1.550 1.408 1.288 1.186
80 30 1.655 1.448 1.292 1.163 1.059
10 1.593 1.361 1.200 1.067 .965
50 1.667 1.500 1.368 1.253 1.15470 30 1.602 1.406 1.260 1.138 1.037
10 1.542 1.331 1.176 1.047 .948
50 1.551 1.404 1.288 1.182 1.097
50 30 1.500 1.330 1.199 1.087 .998
10 1.455 1.263 1.127 1.011 .921
50 1.447 1.317 1.214 1.120 1.043
30 30 1.409 1.258 1.142 1.040 .95710 1.371 1.26•4 1.081 .976 .892
50 1.354 -1.237 1.146 1.061 .992• 10 30 1.322 1.188 1.086 .994 .921I10 1.292 1.146 1.036 .939 .86
0 1.243 1.100 .994 .900 .827
%t'eflectance Room Cavity Ratio
EfL Coll. Wail- 6 7 8 9 10
I 50 1.103 1.027 .959 .904 .828
80 30 .977 .905 .841 .787 .714
10. .889 .821 .757 .706 .638
50 1.076 1.005 .939 .886 .812
70 30 .959 .888 .828 .775 .708
10 .873 .808 .748 .700 .633
50 1.024 .960 .900 .851 .783
10 30 .59 7 .805 .702 .753 .686
10 .850 .787 .731 .685 .620
50 .979 .916 .865 .819 .75530 30 .892 .831 .777 .731 .6
10 .826 .766 .714 .670 .606
so5 .934 .881 .830 .788 .729
10 30 .859 .805 .754 .712 .650
10 +.802 .747 .697 .655 .593
0 0 .769 .715 .668 .628 .568 
,.
Class I. Groups C,D 5L-1DFluorescent Class II, Groups E, F, G* Industrial UL 844Lighting Fixtures UL 595 (Marine)For Marine Use Dimensions Pg. 5L-12Factory Sealed Photometric Data Pg. 5L-12 Crouse-Hinds
Applications:
*EVFtR fixtures are suitable for wet loca-tiors dhd marine environments. above arndbelow deck. where hazardous vapors. gasesor dusfs are present
Ideally suited for use on offshore drilling/Pmroduction platforms and on shipboard inI hazardous areas
* For mounting where headroom is limitedFor hazardous areas where watertight-ness and corrosion resistance is required Options:EFeatures: 
* Furnished with lamps-add suffix S714 to
Extrio surace fiis ed ithgra ep xy catalog numberWaExteriorsurfaces finished with gray epoxy * Furnished with safety cable to prevent fix-
enamel for corrosion resistance ture from falling-add suffix S715 to catalog* Exterior hardware stainless steel number
All joints sealed or gasketed for water- - Beam clamps with shock mounts areVibration resistant available for ease of installation and resis--shock mounts available tance to vibration-add suffix KIT40 to
, o  ut t loabl 
number-sockets are spring loaded to insure tight * Beam clamps only-add suffix KIT41 to
lamp contact connection 
catalog numberHeavyduty glass lamp tubes for maximum Sz Rang esstrength and impact resistance Size ganges:* All exterior materials are non-sparking - 2-lamp only
type~earn clamps provide quick and
.Ymoniti g Electrical RatingFixturois adjustable 30( either side of Ranges:fixture a"s, allowing for control of lightmtput - 40, 60 and 110W
eam clamp support is adjustable Compliances:Blowing beam clamp to be located to C lasst structure 
* NEC: Class I, Groups C. DLo w profile--fixture heiht is 71)(e with Class II, Groups E, F, G
Wda.rd mounting. 11 •'•e with shock UL Standards: 844; 595 (Marine Use)inting Option-for maximum clearance
re headroom is critical
Provides cool light with natural colorrlIition  EVFDRntinuous and uniform Illumination4e Possible by mounting 
end to end
(no space needed between fixtures for Furnished 
Hub Line Volts 2-Lamp
relarnping)..-e page 5L-8 for relamping With 
Size 60 Hz. Cat. #t
ir ngmation 
Reflector, ballast and starter 3/4 110-125 EVFDR224
5lamping is accomplished without tools, for 40 watt. T-12 medium Bi-pin 3/4 277 EVFDR2248
o er-turn fastener allows end of fixture preheat 430MA lamps 
E
to be lowered quickly. Cable supports endof'ture while relamping.both hands are Reflector and ballast for 3/4 110-125 EVFDR2208
fr hreabed lamp tube cover provides 40 watt, T-12 medium Bi-pin 3/4 277 EVFDR2208
qui and easy access to lamp and recep- rapid start 430MA lamps
tacleEV 
D ,2 8
tcReflectors can be removed, replaced and Reflector and ballast for 3/4 110-125 EVFDR223
ad.ed with only a screwdriver 
40 watt, T-12 single pin 3/4 277 EVFDR2238.ast housing readily accessible slimline 425MA lamps
M1imum weight--copper-:froe 
aluminum
rnstruction throughout 
Reflector and ballast for 3/4 110-125 EVFOR226
T P ballast furnished in compliance 60 watt, T-12 recessed contact, 3/4 277 EVFDR2268
i EC 
800MA lampstoIdard Materials: 
Reflector and ballast for 3/4 110-125 EVFDR2207
Housingehcopperdrw aluminum 110 watt, T-12 recessed contact,. 3/4 277 EVFDR22078
E500d hardware-stainless steel 1500MA lamps
teldard Finishes:All exterior metal components---gray 
r with Ciass PbaUats (except EVF2241
,xzfnamel
e ctors--white enamel inside and gray
xnamel outside
FABRACATION OF DOOR PRESSURE SEALS
FOR
CAMDS ECC
SPECIFICATION
No. 02-05
HERBERT W. COULTER
Chemical. Engineer
BILL DARLING
CAMDS Project Coordinator
CHEMICAL AGENIMUNITIONS DISPOSAL
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT.
TOOELE. UTAH 84074
IIJ3115181211 IIIIIIIIIIIiii
DA858251 DA01 8031-1
AMIUNITION EQUIPMENT OFFICE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT ' I
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
Augtist 1975
FABRICATION OF DOOR PRESSURE SEALS
for
CAMDS EXPLOSIVE CONTAINMENT CELL
PREPARED BY: REVIEWED BY:
CPT HERBERT W. COULTER J;. PLmICe
Chemical Engineer , Engineering Branch
BILL DARLING 9 FRED L. HALE
CAMDS Project Coordinhor Ch, RTM Branch
CONCURRED: APPROVED:
SK. CLUFF H. CRIST .
AMDSProject Engin e Ch, Anmmo Equip Office
1.0 SCOPE
The objective of this contract is the fabrication of eight complete
sets of door and End Flange seals for the Explosive Containment Cells of
the CAMDS pilot facility to be constructed at Tooele Army Depot, Utah.
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Drawings
2.1.1 The following drawings are provided to supply data neces-
sary for the manufacture of the seals:
1. M1043 - Sheet A59 - Assembly and Machining Details -
Item-in, Item-out, Ventilation,
and HE Out Doors.
2. M1043 - Sheet A24 - Personnel Door Assembly and
Machining Details.
3. TCDS-02-311 - Sheet 7 - Personnel Door Elevations,
Sections, and Details.
4. TCDS-02-311 - Sheet 4 - End panels, Elevations, Sec-
tions and Details.
5.. TCDS-02-311 - Sheet 1 - ECC Architectural Plan,
Elevations and Sections.
6. TCDS-02-311 - Sheet 8 - Personnel Door.
7. TCDS-02-311 - Sheet 9 - Equipment Doors.
2.2 Background Information
2.2.1 The information contained in Appendices I and 2 is provided
to give the contractor an appreciation of the function and physical configur-
ation of the ECC for which he will fabricate seals.
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 Services to be Performed
3.1.1 The contractor will furnish necessary personnel, facilities,
equipment, material and supplies to produce eight each seals for the five
* Explosive Containment Cell doors, a ioti] of 4oJ seals. Ih addition. 16 each
end flange seals for the Explosive Containment Cell will be fabricated.
3.2 Responsibilities
3.2.1 The Government will provide a set of drawings depicting
the number and dimensions of seals required.
3.2.2 The contractor shall manufacture the seals, addressing
such areiz as acquirin% rubber stock meeting or exceeding specifications,
and production of hot vulcanized splices.
3.2.3 The Government will provide, upon request, following award,
any additional unclassified information, reports, and drawings that the
contractor may deem necessarv to enable him to successfully perform his task.
3.3 Materials (Reference: ASTM Standards, Part 28, Classification
System for Elastomeric Materials (D2000))
3.3.1 End Flange Seals: Neoprene Polymer (60 Durometer) line
call-out 2 BC 620 A14 B14 C12F17.
3.3.2 Door Seals:- Neoprene Polymer (50 Durometer) line call-out
2 BC 520 A14 B14 C12F17.
3.4 Product Markings
3.4.1 Door seals will be marked by use of heft engraving device.
Marking will be on non-bearing web of door seals (See TCDS 02-311-08) and the
side of end flange seal (See TCDS 02-311-04). One mark will be made on each
seal. Maximum depth of marking will be 1/32", maximum height will be 1/4".
The following code will be used:
2
I ~Sea] I
Ma _1_e_ CAMDS laart Number
1 Personnel Door TCDS-02-311-0701
2 Item-In Door TCDS-02-311-0702
3 HiE-Out Door TCDS-02r-3113Q703
4 Vent Door TCDS-02-311-0704
5 Item-Out Door TCDS-02-311-0705
6 End Fianee TCDS-02-311-04 01
3.5 Workmanship
3.5.1 Splices shall be hot vulcanized. Parts to be joined will
be cut so as to form a diagonal splice with a length-to-width ratio of 3:1
(See Drawing TCDS-02-311-08 and TCDS-02-311-04). Variations in bearing
surfaces across splices shall not exceed 1/32". 4
3.5.2 During the process of extracting seal sections, care shall
be taken that incompletely solidified seal sections shall not be rested on
a flat surtace causing a distorted cross-section.
3.6 Additional Data
3.6.1 The following data is provided:
Seal Lengthiof Seal (CL) Diameter of 0-Ring (CL)
Personnel Door 217.13" 69.11",
Item-In Door 62.85" 20.01" /1-/•:'C
HE-Out Door 54.85", 17.46??
Vent Door 66.85"? 21.28" /
Item-Out Door 70.85" 22.55"1 /
End Flange 32.46' 10' 41,
~ ~{3- -.6ocw + .~/3
'fit AwLL"J'!J~L~~
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE
4.1 Vlsual jxx•ilv",jor, ai-'er delivery shall .e- performed T-D oele Army"
Depot perso.:.:el to ins.:r,, co!.fornian-*e -,o -he requirement s of this specification.
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY I
5.1 Packaging
Contractor shall package seals so as to insure kinking or distortion
of cross section does not occur. Seals shall be packaged in stapled or heat-
sealed polyethylene bags. A paper tag with CAMDS part number and item
description shall be attached to package.
5.2 Delivery shall be f.o.b:
Tooele Army Depot
AEO Pilot Model Shop
Building 519
Tooele, Utah 84074
6.0 DELIVERY SCHEDULE
1 Sep T5 - Bids*
1 Oct 75 - Award of Contract
1 Dec 75 - Delivery of Items to Tooele Army Depot.
4
IFB '
IPD- I0
Cost Estimate: 10, O00
RDD: 5335
PCN: 7Q026F
Potential Contractors: 1) A.G.I. Rubber Co.
135 Stratford Avenue
Bridgeport, Conneticut 06608
Phone (203) 366-4318
2) Paul Martin Rubber
Dwight & Front Street
Holyoke, Massachusetts 01040
3) Cooper Industrial Products
725 W. l1th Street
Auburn, Indiana 46706
Phone (219) 925-0700
4) Neff-Perkins Co.o Industrial Park
North Perry, Ohio. 44081
Phone (210) 259-5051
5) R. E. Darling Co.
3749 N. Romero Road
Tuscon, Arizona
6) American Rubber Mfg. Co.
1145 Park Avenue at Emery
Oakland, California
Referenced Drawings:
Dra win& Sheet Revision Dated
TCDS-02-311 1 4 4/30/74
TCDS-02-311 4 3 5/23/74
TCDS-02-311 7 4 4/30/74
TCDS-02-311 8 5 4/25/74
TCDS-02-311 9 4 4/30/74
M1043 A59 None 11/22/74
M1043 A24 None 7/1/74.
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DESIGN OF SEGREGATOR/DFS/ECC HOUSING SHROUD
SPECIFICATION NO. 02-06
24 APRIL 1986
MAX NELSON
CHEMICAL AGENV/MUNITIONS DISPOSALSYTM
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
,TOOELE, UTAH 84074
DA358274 DA0160I 4.-1
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DESIGN OF SEGREGATOR/DFS/ECC HOUSING SHROUD
SPECIFICATION NO. 02-06
24 APRIL 1986
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITIONS DISPOSAL SYSTEM
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
ii
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DESIGN OF SEGREGATOR/DFS/ECC HOUSING SHROUD
SPECIFICATION NO. 02-06
PREPARED BY:
W&Af NE LSON
Equipment Specialist
CONCURRENCES:
J. MND JO ON
(Z ef, Documentation Branch Mechanic gineer
L. DOUGLAS PEIRCE
Chief, PR & Data Analysis Branch
APPROVED BY:
Clief, Engineeri g Division
iii
SPECIFI CATION
FOR
DESIGN OF SEGREGATOR/DFS/ECC HOUSING SHROUD
SPECIFICATION NO. 02-06
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
1. SCOPE 1
2. APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS 1
3. REQUIREMENTS 2
4. QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS 4
5. PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY 4
APPENDIX A DRAWING PACKAGE A-I
iv
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DESIGN OF SEGREGATOR/DFS/ECC HOUSING SHROUD
SPECIFICATION NO. 02-06
1. SCOPE. The objective of this specification is to provide conceptional
alternatives and preliminary and final designs and specifications for
shroud/overstructure for the Segregator/DFS/ECC Housing. The shroud/overstruc-
ture will allow for ventilation of the intermediate barrier area between
existing and proposed structures and prevent escape of toxic agent or agent
vapors to the atomosphere.
2. APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS.
2.1 The documents listed in this paragraph form a part of this specification to
the extent specified herein. The issue in effect on the date of invitation for
bids or request for proposal shall apply.
2.2 Government Publications.
2.2.1 DARCOM Regulation 385-100, DARCOM Safety Manual.
2.2.2 Final Demilitarization Plan for Operation of the Chemical Agent Munitions
Disposal System (CAMDS) at Tooele Army Depot, Utah.
2.2.3 Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA Standards).
2.3 Other Publications.
2.3.1 American Institute for Steel Construction (AISC) - Handbook (entirely).
2.3.2 American National Standards Institute (ANSI) - Drawing Standards.
2.3.3 International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO) - Uniform Building
Code, Uniform Mechanical Code, Uniform Plumbing Code.
2.3.4 National Fire Prevention Association (NFPA) - Entire Code.
2.4 CAMDS Drawings (Appendix I).
2.4.1 TCDS 01-000-01 CAMDS Unpack Area - Concept.
2.4.2 TCDS 02-700-16 Interior Opening Modification.
2.4.3 TCDS 02-706-04 ECC Housing Elevations.
2.4.4 TCDS 04-000-01 DEAC Furnace.
2.4.5 TCDS 04-100-03 Deactivation Input Conveyor.
1
2.4:6 TCDS 22-100-03 Material Handling Equipment Plan.
2.4.7 TCDS 22-900-08 Conveyor Layout Concept
2.4.8 TCDS 22-900-12 Roof Modification
2.4.9 TCDS 40-100-01 Plant Site - Plan.
2.4.10 TCDS 40-100-03 Vicinity and Location Map.
3. REQUIREMENTS.
3.1 Requirements specified herein are for design of a shroud/over structure for
the Segregator to minimize or eliminate the possibility of toxic agents or
vapors escaping to the atmosphere.
3.1.1 The Segregator extends from the south end of the covered unpack area,
including the ECC housing, to the north end of the DFS barrier. The Segregator
is approximately 40 feet wide, 100 feet long and varies from 12 feet to 30 feet
high.
3.1.2 There are throughput openings from the Unpack area, through the ECC
housing and Segregator, into the DFS.
3.2 Requirements for the design of a Segregator/DFS/ECC Housing shroud are to
be completed in three subtasks or phases; 1) Study and Report, 2) Preliminary
Design and 3) Final Design. The Government reserves the right to terminate the
project at the conclusion of subtask/phase 1 or 2 if it is deemed to be in the
best interest of the Government.
3.2.1 Subtask/Phase 1; Study and Report. The Contract Engineer shall
perform/provide the following:
a. Consult with Government Representative to inspect the construction
area at the CAMDS site, clarify and define requirements for the project and
review available source data.
b. Identify, after consultation with Government Representative, addi-
tional information required to complete the requirements that would normally be
provided by the Government.
c. Provide analysis of project needs, previous findings, site evaluation
and alternative methods of accomplishing the end result of the Segregator/DFS/
ECC Housing Shroud Project.
d. Provide general economic analysis of requirements applicable to
various alternatives of the shroud project.
e. Prepare a report containing conceptual design criteria, sketches and
schematic layouts with appropriate exhibits to indicate clearly the con-
siderations involved and the alternative solutions available to the Government
and setting forth the Engineer's findings and recommendations with opinions of
2
probable costs for the Project, including construction cost, contingencies and
allowances for charges for all professionals and consultants.
f. Furnish five copies of the Report, present and review it in person
with/to Government Representative(s).
3.2.2 Subtask/Phase 2; Preliminary Design. After receiving authorization to
proceed, the Contract Engineer shall perform/provide the following:
a. In consultation with Government Representative and on the basis of
the accepted Report of subtask 1, determine the extent of the Project.
b. Prepare preliminary design documents consisting of final design cri-
teria, preliminary drawings and outline specifications.
c. Submit a revised projection of probable project cost, as appropriate,
based on information contained in preliminary design documents.
d. Furnish five copies of all preliminary design documents and present
and review them in person to Government Representative(s).
3.2.3 Subtask/Phase 3; Final Design. After receiving authorization to proceed
the Contract Engineer shall perform/provide the following:
a. On the basis of accepted preliminary design documents and the revised
opinion of probable project cost, prepare final drawings and specifications to
show the character and extent of the Project.
b. Advise Government Representative(s) of any adjustments to the latest
opinion of probable project cost caused by changes in extent or design require-
ments of the project or construction costs and furnish a revised opinion of pro-
bable project cost based on the final drawings and specifications.
c. Furnish five copies of all final drawings and specifications and pre-
sent and review them in person with/to Government Representative(s). Assist in
preparing/reviewing other documents, as requested, in preparation for construc-
tion bidding.
d. Review and comment on Government bidder's list.
e. Review the bid abstract for fair and reasonable prices.
f. Address discrepancies between the construction costs and differences
concerning final design specifications and drawings.
3.2.4 The construction of the shroud or authority to act as agent for the
Government in contracting for its construction will not be part of this
requirement. The Government will act as its own agent in contracting for and
through the construction phase. The Government will inspect the work but will
request the services of the design Engineer for consultation on unusual or uni-
que problems, i.e. conflicts with Construction Contractor concerning final
design specifications and drawings, with such services paid for at hourly rate,
as identified in contract.
3
4. QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS.
4.1 The primary concern of this project and subsequent construction will be to
ensure the capability of the completed project to protect the atmosphere and
environment from possible contamination by escaping toxic agents or vapors.
4.2 All submissions, plans, and concepts will take into account compliance with
CAMDS and Tooele Army Depot Regulations plus compliance with all normally appli-
cable state and federal regulations, specifications and codes.
5. PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 Contracted design Engineer shall furnish five copies of applicable reports,
documents and other submissions and present and review them in person with
government representatives.
5.1.1 Drawings shall be original reproducible drawings and shall be turned over
to the government upon the direction of the Contracting Officer or Contracting
Officer's representative. Upon completion of the contract all drawings prepared
by Contractor become property of the U.S. Government.
4
APPENDIX A
10. Appendix A
10.1 CAMDS Drawings listed in paragraph 2.4 are enclosed.
... 65- ,- -T- ....
a 7 64 3 21
PARTS LIST
FIND M7yUINMflIAUECD ANF:AC=TUINVENTORY CONTROL
ml • NO, IDENT NO. PART NO. OR PART NO.
-J____ __ _ ___ __i IIII
_ _ _ _ ---- . _ _ - - I,, /-/I-='{ 5/J.,:,f OUI4
CCLc'M-n-K/~ecA tA'EM saoper Cozs1w,41
(TYP/CACJ 'I .'WSX/6 (rYR 4 PLACE)j
D I DD A A=• D
Cas(er -.. -iCOii/C, etr'ANctIOde
.. .... !, A, . . ,
I ~L.
C/C 8, - FLL L £AE'G-r 5 sPpoRer Col 04144i
VIE-W A-A, ,S~CALE£: 114"-1
Wf,/SXIC COLUMNS
OpT/ONI÷ POZ,4LC.eS)
,, '" -. -- I -_ . .. "- ,
SI I r
w5,-16; coz lwws (E..15/11Ia)6 r1/I @
c -~(r~ T•P PLAC6ES) :1bIii
i • 41,WA710AIFOUitIA T"/CA/ l Li1QJ~
OLA•. .IV
s---crlolv "..
cA t.e: I1'/ 1 .... :.:•.. .. ..... , ..
SECT/QA' AAI
SCALE: //14 ".1
CKeEPPPtSupI r t (,'er)
___.-.-.. (,er),/,( • _
- -- - ------
-" 'I 'I!. XI'I'I' J
',Sx/c (Er/sr/Nc) wV.CJC//ACA CABL•E TrA, WIZ/&4 A" 'COC,4rSOW'
" •"--- 5A,5" 6t(•,V"mFAI
rb-f c;0k-CeW1MCA/r 7-" YC r' ,el6#r ro ACCEPT
III
A lo~~er IFLcde(Ct)NOR JZONJ REV IDESCRIPTION IDATE ICHKRIAPVDLA 0 _,_ ________', __REVISIONS A
--.I._._,98 UNLESS OTHERWISE PECIFIED TECH. .,, .C0%a. CAMDOS - ENGINEERING DIVISION
____________ ALL DIMENSIONS ARE IN INCHES TOEL AMYDEO
TOLERANCES: TOOELE, UTAH 84074
3 PLACE DECIMALS- EQ. SP.
PLACE D CIMAL-S EHOPCAC /M1Pbr COI//PAYC SMlOUDovo 1ov, FRACTIONS  "HCE Cj••ll••CAT/ON A- 6YYCA/S•/C/ sc'ppcOer CCZL' &AIW CAT/CMOA~aI r L LiA'/ dPP•C#E; C1Li z4 Z S E ASEUBLY T"oN "EC.VS NASS MBLYOF AiOD/f/C4GL/ESW
ENG. BR. Z LAYOUT 4,A PETA/LS
WIrST ELEVATION ES•T /E VATION EN,- DIV * CL-.FF SIZE COEDEENTNO. DRAWINGN. REV
,56AL . ýý -1 0 '"Aze.LINT DIV.F 5
QC DLR. I ALDS /¾--900-12 .
USEDO=N SAFETY SCALE: /-OTO DATED24AP.4R. 4 1SHEET / OF
a 7 6 5 4  2
+ " I+ I 5 4 3 2 i
8 I 7 J 2
PARTS LIST
FIND Cry UNI NOMENCL-ATURE COE MANUFACTURE INVENTORY CONTROLNO. 1 T OR PART NO.
C~i~~t~cct It~PIA.. c. LLCL0-S $QLIA-LLY sP~acrcP, 04
OiM lo 5
"iu ls ~e e & - T 'o e •
~~LM.~ ~~ cB.eTBLS4
,IA . W ILL. " & I-O2- L
rkou I -T"V2
! .LSTri
Eko~~,4 TL EDLct -rTAif Ai
orF.
" M.iJpP 
F- -to.
_ 
I.-
1--
, ;"
ASa. 41Yz
Z Z ES TD\E - V V 4 - A
IIASICJS -c 0-L.VA-rrIch. ALSOA 0 -0 ti.
NR ZONRE DESCRIPTION DATE CHKRAPVDOAREVISIONS A
UNLESS OTHERWISE SP CIFIED TECH. .4. MIANINJUQL I CAMDS - ENGINEERING DIVISION
ALL DIMENSIONS ARE IN INCHES ENO , •, rir TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOLERANCES:; TOOELE, UTAH 84074
3 PLACE DECIMALS EQ. -S.
2 PLACE DECIMALS
-FRACTIONS IIECKEl
NEXTASSEMBLY ANOLS0 DOC. DR. CCN- eF
END. BR. r-L V&r 0
ENQD SIZE COOSIOESTNO. DRAWING NO. REV
_,IT DIV A
OC DR. F 54931 T ODS z-',ae n O
USED ONSFT CALE:Y'. 0 .'~ DAThý -Z MA! l SHEAT I OF 1
8 7 6 5 3 2 1
PARTS LIST
FIND OTY UNI NOMENC-ATURE CODE MANUFACTURE INVENTORY CONTROL
NO. IDENT NO. PART NO. OR PART NO.
D
1welleo (eelr) -JC.recs/s Y4 sarr ACI I//S,
,4fUrC y0,02 /L LA/ly.w-
tx/SCOr/. Ar'774'OCS Ae t'/ C/,er 'o
'ý'pslrlam AN ,'•.,[A/VO A-1r/ C --/- N-Mrec"
- OD T AC'OO4W
IIIEW f(L )
56C7/CM I~'•F 70JAM B. (' 7ecp)i.
S5cAZlvA-SS%0
sEC TIC/V 13-13
OLD PeOO
",ep I A eo CKWAS/62P
B Žza-yr2eaPa~O ote
" .TCDJ' 02- 706-, Tcog 2-747 \'
, ~VIE W¢
I \.'' I/ //fl/4Yi (ePcDA,'LEL
---JLA/E 4TAH£V FIALt/WoTCCMZtVT
ItO US/R/ 6A2)6'z
WF - VTO l NOR JZONq REV IDESCRIPTION I AE CKRAVZ eREVISIONS
,c.•4zE'• -- 0" UNLESS OTHERWISE PECIFIED TECH e'•' ,17•.4tiSlj W CAMUDS -ENGINEERING DIVISION
ALL DIMENSIONS ARE IN INCHES - °••/£'AJ TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOLERANCES: EGqkO TOOELE, UTAH 840743 P(ACE DECIMALS Ea.S 1 P/t
2 PI-ACEE DECIMA~Ll••• • •T' //FRT/TIONS ES I OT H P
END. SR. wLs EVWIL SIS A&6k,4r161V.4A 1* .0--rT 1ZS
A"DM ENSIS SIZE COAIRIDENTNE DRAWINGNO. RTV
TA ENR. F 54931 TCDSE 0-70T-A0
UA CIDC IME: AVS .• TS
2~ ~ 
11AEDCML
7ii
CAMDS
•,-i DEACTIVATION FURNACE INPUT CONVEYOR
WITH DOUBLE TIPPING VALVE
TCDS 04-000-03 AU6, 1077
a8I 7 I S I 5 1 4 3 I 2 1
FID QYNMXýUKCOD DRAWINl "II NETRFN o TY (* NOMEHCLATURE DENT NO NO. NO. SPEC CONTR.OR.NO-
o oli
0!
WE5"7 ELE•V,'7'7:4 •lrs 9.4*FE 1
-M _.3 '774 EL.EVA."I"OA
-" IF
I
W-,, EL.VE eJ 0 - ."
au qo
-/774ATEVA70:
Scla ..........
4;W-
4-,, "• I 0 " /510Va.- -
EAsr LE•VA1?O$J t o•e77-d N7 o t
SCALE:'&" 1 0
42 LL4 O~ 5ZaES AZE 'WVEAJ /IV F/AJ/5'IED
onfe 51rEs3
A , ALL paJ&LPASS 0-rp- (5'0 0) ae 5E laVaD-l*Ž,D A'eOfg79cfl l A,
n•ŽJJPPAD W17hU EneeEA5ECY PMJC L4TC14 ZMtLRDSCRIPTION DAEAPPROVE
ALL DIMENIONfS ARE IN INCHES fm:,ýwAcTOOCLE ARMY DEPOT
TOLERANCES: TDOELE. UITAH 84074
I PUACK ICINAJJm acsoc
FSACCT1CPS
SLITF AAEt AS
F 54931 TCDSCSYC6-6-4 4A
AX CRTIFIEO -- OED; DA SITo 
c s -l- D 7 e 75L47A s6 I o
AS BULT (N , USE -% )oe1kr7
a, 7 8 5 I - 4 13 4 **IB*YI.fl NTIS II.*1
ILE'
CAMDS4
UNPACK AREA
TCDSOI-OO-01 NOVW 1981
* -.--. *-.:** * -** .. C A M DS'- - *.- - -
j DEACFURNAC
ICD 0400001 UGFT7
'1
IL
8 7 6 5. 4 2
PARTS LIST
FIND Ow UNI NOMENCLATURE CODE MANUFACTURE INVENTORY CONTROL
- 1OME T UR E DENT NO. PART NO. OR PART NO.
I arg=;Ktr METER/•NS ta'Yct
2 ECC'I/ INPUT COAVC eyaO
3RPOCKET SMEAR /lA.4CI/7IE
D 4 ~~ROCKET7 SHE14R MCIffN11ED
pZYIVC/'III DRAWN Sr7"T/ON
ROCE 5WqEAR 1pfACq/,I5
CONVEYCO E
ROCkET, 511EA4" AC/hIV/E
0 P4//CM V•I CPA/ WT/QN
77-OE-T 5 LIEAR A C7/I/Al'
DEACRTIVATION FL11ACH
IEalIT CONCIYOAR
q TRANSFER CONVEYOR
/0 TV 71/IMERA
It AGENT ACCUMULATOR TANK
C
,z r r um '--
44
If.
COVCRETE" PAD ,"
EAEQUIPMENT AREA AHM RYEAUL-IC AJ NJRE
NOR1ZO RE ECITO DATE CHKR APVD[
AWREVISIONS A
UNESOHEWS PEIID TECH. K AC:EJ -•IeC, CAMU$ - ENGINEERING DIVISION
ALL DIMENSIONS ARE IN INCHES ER.TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOLERANCES: ER, ; • , TOOELE, UTAH 84074R pLACE DECIMALK ROCKET LINE SYSTEM
FRACCNONR HECKE 'ATERIAL HANDLINGPAD
€•,.• .••NX SEBy ANGLES DOC. 8. . .',A EGuI PMENT
:N.Ol •SIZE ICODE DENJ•T NO.I DRAWINO NO. REV
WEST~l MONTO
A NOR: Z qREIDSC IPINDT ICKAP
'RF 54931 TCDSA
USEDON SAFETY D SSCALE. N -0 DATEARE MAR ISHEET - OAM D
TOEACS W--V TODEL... UTA 84074_
7 6 4 3 2I
PARTS LIST
FIND a T UNI NOMENCLATURE I CODEO. MANUFACTURE INVENTORY CONTROL
NO ETNO. PART NO. OR PART NO.
D 
D
• o 0 
o 0 0
o o0
8 
00
6-L o8 6
0 
o tO
+ I500o. 00 +- Y= ,o500.o0
CAS,
PROPOPSED
L- B X Y; 136.5.40
MHA -09&x
/+ / 4r X- 95.7YIa39
(I"Y- 18,5.5.
Y - 12 5 5 .0 0 8 / /0 0 .0 
X - 1f7 7 .9 2
Y-13L40.12/ Y- 1138. 21
X-II.5 Y- 107q. 97
X- - 1000.00 [bF6 11Y- IOOO.00 0
3E - 100.00 CMO
+X-289.27 X- 45.09 -- o.0
.[Y- 987.59 Y9381
-X-9U8&O( mbM mpF
,, -C3 3.9 0 ET F
F~ý Pb)F L -18X 10•ii4/07
V- IO75. 07 Y- 9004.00 V- 13. 2+
X-I-K_._ _- X c172
UTL ~ ~~Y- 856.30 T O "y - 85 8.92 E- 5 9.&CALE : I";H0'
•" Ab5 I
IX- 11420.55
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Y 1138.2148&014-IBFADC1,C IQ)FQ I1
__ • X- 85q.O0 (408500S a IFLbI A REb 2AW N "70 U)ObATF• CAM b b PLAN -T 61TE EC
ANOR XONE REV I DESCRIPTION-DATE55bUNPV
ONR VIIN
• NUNLESS OTHERWISE SPECIrIED 
:TECH* KLVV R VIIN CAMIDS - ENGINEERING DIVISIONA
)q*7H77•/ALL DIMENSIONS 
ARE IN INCHES TONGR, ARMY DEPOTY -70b. (.8. TOLE INCE,: 
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
3
• -  .•3 PLUCE DECIMAL8 EQ. OR
2P I-ACE DECIMAL S. 61 7" E L A 'YO U TSFRA  TION S C
HECK I  0• 6 • N -O r I
7 E G , -• A S S E M LY AN L EO C . S IR :5 N 1 L l l C A N A b 5 P L A N -" 5 1 T E
END. IR. P. JOHN50KI PLA•N
+ X- 7q5. 28 X-!33B.5(o IECDIETN MIGO E
ý'G .C -PLNT DWIV F 5 4 9 3 1 T C D S LQ -10 0 -3 0 1 BSx Y- qORI(SH.EE I OF
USED =oN SAFETY SCooE 1"'4"0' 1oDTE: 2-9 -TA l 8 o
8~~j 7 653q320
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
RETORT FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-01
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
l J. K, !TAH
Surface Combustion Division Surface Combustion Division
SSuface Combustion Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
RICHARD W. MISIEWICZ
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal.
March 27, 1975
DATED
DA3II87 DA0IIIIIIIII0i61 II 6-1DA358276 DA01 6036-1
1. 0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for design,
test, manufacture, acceptance and delivery of a retort complete with all
charts or graphs, and accessories described herein. The retort will be
used as a rotary kiln for the deactivation Of explosives from munitions
at operating temperatures of 6000 F. to 15000 F., and in an oxidizing
atmosphere. The kiln is subject to the detonations of the explosives.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in
effect on the date of invitation for bids or request for proposal form a part
of this specification to the extent specified herein.
Specifications:
MIL-E-6844 Electrodes; Welding, Corrosion and Heat Resistant Alloys
MIL-R-5031 Rods; Welding, Corrosion and Heat Resistant Alloys
Drawings:
ECDS04-350-01 Retort Assembly
ECDS04-350-02 Retort Details
Other Publications:
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Act
2 2 Non-Government Documents:
ASTM American Society of Testing Materials, Standards
ASME American Society of Mechanical Engineers
3
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. The retort specified herein shall be in accordance with this
specification and the drawing(s) listed, which describe a conveying means
comprised of four (4) segments, which, when bolted together through their
flanged ends, form a cylindrical barrel with internal, integrally cast flights
forming a continuous spiral. Operating temperatures within this kiln will
range from 6000 F. to 15000 F., in an oxidizing atmosphere, and when rotated
mechanically, will convey and tumble the munitions. This retort shall be
cast of ASTM A-351 (HK40) and shall reflect best industry practice, but
in no instance shall any such practice interfere with the functional purpose
as described herein, or the durability, operation, or safety aspects of the
end product duty.
3.2 Characteristics.
3.2.1 Environmental Conditions. This retort will be subject to temperatures
of 6000 F. to 15000 F. and simultaneously to an oxidizing atmosphere con-
taining low amounts of SO 2 HC1, HF, P 20 5 , lead oxide and lead phosphate.
3.2.2 Transportability. The retort sections shall be so arranged and match-
marked as to be easily disassembled for replacement of parts or for shipment
to another site and reassembled.
3.3 Design and Construction. The design and construction of retort sections
shall be the responsibility of the vendor in accordance with the requirements
specified herein.
3. 3. 1 Materials. This retort shall be assembled of castings of a heat and
corrosion resistant high alloy steel ASTM A-351 (HK40) unless otherwise
specified, which must retain structural integrity shape- and squareness
under conditions of alternate heating and cooling. The material used in
manufacture shall be in accordance with those specified in the drawings
which are part of this specification: EQDS04-350-01 and ECDS04-350-02.
3.3.2 Retort Shell. The retort shell shall be cast, as specified, with flights
cast integrally. The end faces shall be machined. The retort shall be made
up of bolted sections which permit the capability of replacement.
3.3.3 Flanges. Flanges shall be either cast or fabricated of wrought
material of compatible alloy grade to permit welding to shell; however, in
either instance they shall be welded onto the retort sections as shown on
ECDS04-350-01 and ECDS04-350-02. Flanges shall be machined after
welding and jig drilled as shown on drawings ECDS04-350-01 and
ECDS04-350-02.
4
3.3.4 Welding.
3.3.4.1 Filler Metal. Welding rods, welding wire, and electrodes used
in the welding of steels and corrosion and heat resistant alloys shall be
capable of producing satisfactory welds when used by a certified welding
operator with satisfactory welding apparatLu,, and shall have a composition
suitable for producing welds conforming to the-requirements specified
herein. Coated electrodes used for welding corrosion or heat resistant
alloys shall conform to Military Specification MIL-E-6844. Rods used for
welding corrosion or heat resistant alloys shall conform to Military Speci-
fication MIL-R-5031. The class of filler metal employed shall be compatible
with the base metal in maintaining the mechanical properties and corrosion-
resistance of the base metal.
3.3.4.2 Joint Design. Joint design shalU be in accordance with ASME
Section VIII, Division 1, Article UW-i8, Fillet Welds.
3.3.4.3 Preparation of Surfaces. Surfaces to be welded shall be free
from grease or other foreign matter and shall be as free as possible from
rust and protective coatings, Cleaning with a wire brush or abrasive paper
may be used for removing rust and protective coatings. Where a wire brush
is used it is recommended that its composition, insofar as practicable, be
similar to the composition of the material being welded.
3.3.4.4 Soundness. Vendor shall conduct *ny necessary tests required to
qualify or requalify the welding equipment and/or each welding operator in
accordance with the specification referenced in Section IX of ASME and
utilize only the qualified welding equipment and qualified welding operators
in performing and welding on this contract.
3.3.5 Attachments. Sections of the retort shall ke bolted together as shown
on ECDS04-350-01, using high strength and high temperatqure bolts and nuts,
with load indicating washers/and lock washers.
3.3.6 Workmanship. The casting shall be free of. warp, blow holes, sinks,
pitting, or other surface defects; (occasional fills and minor repairs may
be made to new castings if repair results in meeting this specification in all
respects). Failure of a repaired sect#n will he the total responsibility
of the manufacturer.
3.3.6.1 All defects shall be repaired after cleaning,, using welding rod
material of equal or greater alloy quality than the parent metal. Flange
bolt hole locations must be met to assure match configuration of retort
sections.
3.3.7 Marking. The vendor will, be required either to stamp or weld a
serial number and year of manufacture on each retort section in addition
to matchmarks. The patterns and templates also will be marked with a
serial number.
5
303.8 Safety. The design and fabrication as well as method of operation
shall be in total compliance with all current O.S.H.A., federal, state,
and local codes, laws, ordinances, etc.
3.3.9 Construction.
3.3.9.1 The vendor shall be required to use a vertical mold. Molding
setup will be subject to certification or acceptance by Purchaser's inspector.
3.3.9.2 The vendor shall be required to provide adequate chills for
the spiral flights.
3.3.9.3 The vendor shall be required to smooth the internal surface of
the retort, using a tumbling technique.
3.3.9.4 The vendor shall be required to remove all chaplets. The retort
will be inspected for removal of chaplets and certified for acceptance by
Purchaser's inspector.
6
400 QUALITY ASSURANCE
4.1 Inspection.
4.1.1 Responsibility for Inspection. Unless otherwise specified in the contract
or order, the vendor is responsible for the performance of all inspection
requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise specified, the
vendor may utilize his own facilites or any commercial laboratory acceptable
to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right to perform any of the
inspections set forth in the specification where such inspections are deemed
necessary to assure supplies and services conform to prescribed requirements.
4.1.2 The vendor shall be required to perform a boroscopic inspection
of the internal surface of the retort to identify any flaws such as, but not
limited to, flashings, frozen chills, cracks, hot tears and unremoved
chaplets. This inspection will be subject to certification or acceptance by
Purchaser's inspector. Any deficiencies will be noted and corrected by the
vendor and subjected again to inspection.
4.1.2.1 The vendor shall employ X-ray techniques for examination of
visual hot tears to determine the extent of the defect, and to prescribe
repair technique and approach.
4.1.2.2 Repaired hot tear defects shall be subjected to X-ray if needed
to comply with the requirements specified herein. Repair procedures
which require welding shall be approved by the Purchaser's Quality
Assurance Department, prior to the implementation of any such repairs.
4.1.2.3 Purchaser's inspector will determine that the retort dimensions are
within tolerances set forth on the Drawing No. ECDS04-350-02.
4.1.204 Purchaser's inspector will determine that retort sections have been
matched, and appropriately marked.
4.2 Chemical Analysis.
4.2.1 The vendor shall be required to furnish a certified chemical
analysis of the material used in casting of the retort to assure compliance
with paragraph 3.3.1.
4.2.2 The vendor shall be required to supply four test specimens, one
from each pouring of the heat, for verification of chemical analysis.
7
4.3 Physical Properties
4.301 The vendor shall be required to prepare 3 test specimens from
each pouring of heat in accordance with ASTM Methods A370. Test bars
shall be poured in special blocks from the same heat as the castings
represented.
4,3,2 Tensile tests shall be performed on one specimen from each heat.
These tests shall be performed in accordance with ASTM Method A370.
The tensile properties of alloy used for the castings shall comply with
paragraph 3.3.1. The vendor shall furnish a certified record of the
tensile tests.
8
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Before shipment, the retort shall be cleaned and prepared
as prescribed in the vendor's shop procedures. Machined ends shall be
suitably covered with plywood to protect againqt damage during shipping.
Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the manufacturer to
assure arrival at the plant site in proper operating condition with no re-
furbishing needed before use. The sections of retort need not be fully
assembled for shipment.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the supplier shall
be appropriately identified and packaged in accordance with commercial
practice to insure acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation and
shall be delivered F.O.B. to:
Transportation Offices
Tooele Army Depot
Tooele, UT 84074
MARKFOR: AMXTE-AEO,.Project T-172, BB#4
9
6.0 NOTES
6.1 All new patterns and templates developed as a result of this specification
shall become the property of the Purchaser.
10
DEAC COOLING-HEATING SYSTEM
FOR
CAMDS DEAC FURNACE
SPECIFICATION
NO. 04-02
10-3-74
MIDLAND-ROSS CORPORATION
CHEMICAL AGENT/MUNITIONS DISPOSAL SYSTEM
CANDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
Dl8 II DA01603I-Il~ll1DA858279 DA01 6039-1
*ýPEC~IOUATION SHEE'i.B
SURFACE COMPUSTION DIvIslON Page
midland-Ross Corporation
Toledo, Ohio 43601
BY rs/Fr
SPECIFICATION OF PEFAC. COOLI96- HEAK"Jrt -SY 7 ORDERNO. PC- 11958
FOR C&M.•.• , USC FOMC9 DATE 1.0-3-74
-" ~ ~ C A L DG"L' ... "...." : "
7--
A/ 0-O -4/ 'SOUX CCS IoVAAJ1 ____e
-_7r_ Vlf~ E.. &0
- - "6 r -- - -- .t
-61.(2-69)
* PECIFICATIO SHO D
SURFACE COMBUSTION DIVISION Pagege
Midland-Ross Corporation
Toledo, Ohio 43601
SPECIFICATION OF DEnc Co0LI3G ,SY'STEM ORDER NO. PC- I .S8
FOR CAKAL-S0P(EA FMZ04CE DATE ____'711f
Dr.em1 4VOW)LABLE WFITORAFL cooJv/acriwi. @ ojve oe
D° r -r A ,r j0 OF -:o `.b
. ~ ~ ~ ~ o vs w e,.. .-. :. :. ...- . r . ... G
hV IA LA BL mk
.. . . . .. .I -: - ... -' - '"1 ":.. ...: " ' .'• ".. ..-. '-" " " ' " '
F r Le v._" ".L. " . .:".: .. • .. . . . .. : . .
:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ A - :F_:-; PH::: ; i:: _:::" ".., -::: " :::;:
0" . .. I
4. ." •. : " t_
a . -
*ISPECIFICATION SHEA-B
SURFACE COMBUSTION DIVISION Page
Midland-Ross Corporation
Toledo, Ohio 43601
BY F •-/J
SPECIFICATION OF DEIC. - CootLiJ S(STYMM ORDER NO. PC- I'-SS
FOR CAMAS DEC FU29ACZ DATE ___-_?_-_7 _
L S.,Y- %.0FM IUj:c&D O
" "-zoo O .F*
I
. _ .
:} :
10-0
NOMIW..L Co u.cra. VQ. . o iASS Iea SIDE.....,
CoA P) ol f.
. .*SPECIFICATION SE -B 4
BSURFACE COMBUSTION DIVISION
Midland-Ross Corporato
Toledo, Ohio 43601
BY Ff/TJ5
SPECIFICATION OF COOkiNG- I4-I EATI SYSMEM ORDER NO. Pc- iZ 58
FOR .CAMDS' DEPAC F NACE. DATE 10-3-74
D -k
•~r. V-5•''':
b0%0
C A.
00
~jj
xL
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
INDUCED DRAFT FAN
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-O3-A
REVISED BY: CONCURRENCE:
W. E. WILLIS A.A. KEEL
Surface Division Surface Division
FRANKLIN G. RINMR
Surface Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
k~cHARD w. MiiSwiEWt
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
DATED: April 25, 1975
REVISED DATE: March 28, 1977
DA358282 DA01 6042-1
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for design, per-
formance, test, manufacture, acceptance, and delivery of an induced
draft fan, complete with all appurtenances, manuals, charts or graphs,
and accessories described herein. The fan will be used to provide
suction (draft) through the entire air pollution control complex.
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in
effect on the date of invitation for bids or request for proposal form
a part of this specification to the extent specified herein.
Other Publications
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Act, 1970.
Supplemental Instructions to MIL-D-1000 for Drawings, dated 18 February
1975.
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of
this specification as specified herein. Unless otherwise indicated, the
issue in effect on the date of invitation for bid, or request for proposal
shall apply.
Standards.
AWS American Welding Society
NEC National Electric Code
AMCA Air Moving and Conditioning Association
Other Publications.
Machinery's Handbook.
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. The fan system shall be designed to move 15,000 actual
cubic feet per minute of air which will be ducted to the inlet (inter-
face) of the fan. A duct will be supplied which will interface with the
outlet, (mating flanges will be furnished by the Purchaser for both inlet
and outlet). The fan shall be centrifugal, all welded construction. The
rotor shall be of continuous welded construction. The fan shall be of
heavy duty type components throughout. It shall have clockwise rotation
bottom horizontal configuration. It shall be arranged for damped coupling
drive, with the rotor shaft supported with at least two outboard bearing
pillow blocks spaced to assure shaft alignment. All components shall
be sized and capable of delivering 15,000 actual cubic feet per minute
of air at 10.4 pounds per square inch absolute inlet pressure, 45 inches
differential pressure and at a density of .039 lb./cu.ft. at 1650 F.
for inlet gases, and with a motor input of 200 horsepower (at approximately
1700-1800 revolutions per minute). The fan will be driven by a two (2)
speed 1800/900 revolution per minute (RPM) electric motor supplied by
others.
3.2 Characteristics.
3.2.1 Performance. The fan as installed shall be capable of delivering
the full rated capacity of air continuously with no adverse effects or
deterioration when lubricated and maintained as recommended by the fan
manufacturer and under the stated ambient conditions specified in 3.1.
3.2.1.1 The durability of the. fan in operation shall be sufficient to
meet all industry standards, and also a use factor of 125% over a period
of 10,000 hours of actual operation under the described use and conditions.
3.2.2 Physical Characteristics. The fan described herein shall conform
to the following:
Weight of total fan and base without motor ---- 5192 pounds nominal
Diameter (inlet) 18" nominal
Size (outlet) ------- 8.5" x 14.5" nominal
Diameter (wheel) 70 1/4" maximum
Arrangement ------ bottom horizontal
The fan will be controlled by a motor control switch, remotely located,
in a bank of control switches for all motors, located in a control booth.
All necessary motor controls and field wiring will be furnished by
Purchaser.
4
3.2.3 Protective Coatings.
3.2.3.1 Painting. The manufacturer shall prepare the fan so that
fabrication painting will be in accordance with the requirements specified
herein.
a. Protect all machined surfaces during painting.
b. Painting shall be done in clean, dry, well-ventilated spaces.
The air temperature shall be between 600F and 900 F, or in
accordance with the paint manufacturer's instructions.
Materials shall be thoroughly mixed, and there shall be no
settling or separation of ingredients during painting. Unless
otherwise specified, coatings may be applied by any method
that will ensure the application of a smooth, uniform, con-
tinuous film, free from dried overspray, runs, sags, blisters,
orange peel, or other imperfection. Freshly painted material
shall not be exposed to conditions that will harm the paint.
c. All fabrications to receive one shop prime coat (Toledo Paint
Co. #29447, or approved equal, rust inhibiting tan primer).
Then a finish coat of Code 9 Gray - Sherwin/Williams F-65-A2,
or approved equal.
d. Prior to application, all mill scale, oil foreign substances,
and weld slag must be removed.
e. Filing, sanding, or other dressing operations shall not be
done on a part or assembly after it has been finished. Unless
otherwise specified, welding, soldering and brazing shall not
be permitted on an assembly after it has been finished.
3.2.3.2 Epoxy Interior. The interior shall be coated with an epoxy
corrosion resistant material in accordance with the coating manufacturer's
instructions. Application methods shall be such as to insure a smooth,
even and homogeneous coating free of thin spots. The coating shall be
resistant to traces of HCL, HF, SO 2 , P205 and entrained NaOH.
3.2.4 Environmental Conditions. The fan shall have adequate provisions
to ensure operation in a temperate climate including +1100F maximum
ambient temperature.
3.2.5 Transportability. The fan shall be so constructed that it will
be demountable with a minimum of labor and equipment and with no adverse
effect on function and performance, or replacement of parts, for shipment
to another site for re-erection.
5
3.3 Design and Construction. The fan in this specification shall be
designed and constructed in conformance with established industry stan-
dards and in accordance with AMCA standard which shall govern in all
cases, except that where conflict is apparent, the Purchaser specifica-
tions herein shall govern. The fan described shall conform in all
respects to the proper choices of materials, processes, and components
as to reflect best industryostandards.
Lubrication schedules including quantities, maintenance supplies needed,
and directions shall be provided by the fan manufacturer in a manual form.
The manual will describe the materials, method, and frequency, as well as
quantities of materials per service cycle. It shall list replaceable
components and method of procuring replacements.
3.3.1 Equipment Furnished. The following are the major components
defining the fan specified herein.
3.3.1.1 Fan. The fan shall be of a centrifugal (radial blade) type
designed to provide the rated output volume and pressure at the design
shaft speed and at the site elevation of 5000 feet at ambient conditions
of 1100 F. during operating periods. It shall be of uniformly high
quality materials and efficient design and good workmanship. It shall
be epoxy coated on the interior as specified in 3.2.3.2.
3.3.1.2. Inlet. The fan inlet shall be flanged for gasketing, sturdy,
and with an adequate bolting pattern to assure continually leak-proof
attaching under the design pressure. It shall include a motorized damper.
3.3.1.3. Outlet. The fan outlet shall be bottom horizontal. It shall
be flanged for gasketing, and it shall be sturdy and have an adequate
bolting pattern to assure continuous leak-proof attaching under the design
pressure.
3.3.1.4 Access Door. An access door shall be provided, bolted to the
scroll for the purpose of inspection of the wheel and housing interior.
It shall be gasketed to be airtight, and with a bolting pattern adequate
to maintain airtightness (locate on side opposite drive).
3.3.1.5 Drain. A drain shall be provided which may be a short section
of pipe coupling welded to the lowest point of the scroll.
3.3.1.6 Bearings. The drive shaft shall be mounted in pillow-block
bearings mounts for stability, and the bearings shall be adequately sized
to have a 10,000 hour B-10 life as defined in Machinery's Handbook. They
shall be spaced so that vibration will be at a minimum. They shall be
of self-aligning type, sealed against oils and dust, and have grease
fittings on top.
6
3.3.1.7 Drive. Drive shall be of the direct coupled type. Flexible
type coupling, Falk, Sier-Bath, or approved equal, shall be provided
by the fan manufacturer. Mounting of the coupling will be in accordance
with the coupling manufacturer's instructions.
3.3.1.8 Guards. An OSHA approved coupling guard shall be furnished
along with coupling, and be designed appropriately.
3.3.1.9 Base Plates. The fan motor and shaft bearings shall be mounted
on separate sole plates.
3.3.1.10 Fan Wheel. The fan wheel shall be fabricated of sufficiently
strong carbon steel components to accommodate a drive motor of up to
200 horsepower without undue vibration or noise generation. The rotor
shall be both statically and dynamically balanced. Aluminum construction
is not acceptable.
3.3.2 Materials. The materials and gauges used in construction shall
be selected by the manufacturer to meet the requirements specified herein.
3.3.3 Welding. Welding shall conform to American Welding Society, A2,
0-58 specifications for all-welded construction.
3.3.4 Lubrication. Lubrication shall be of grease type with grease
fittings (Zerk), easily accessible and properly located to assure adequate
lubrication when serviced at normal intervals as recommended in the
service manual.
3.3.5 Identification and Marking. The fan specified herein shall be
clearly identified with a permanent nameplate (stainless steel or equiva-
lent) which will include type, capacity, power requirements, and in
addition, the fan casing shall have arrows showing direction of rotation.
These shall be in conformance with maintenance manuals, diagrams and
directions, or to Purchaser's specifications.
3.3.6 Workmanship.
3.3.6.1 Castings. Cast parts shall be sound, free of shrink or blow
holes, scale blisters, or other defects.
3.3.6.2 Welding. Welding and welding repairs shall conform with AWS
specifications for similar materials.
3.3.7 Interchangeability. Procurement of individual fans is of low
volume and little replacement is anticipated; however, individual com-
ponents thereof shall be of standard design, readily duplicated in
case of failure or damage.
3.3.8 Safety. The design and fabrication as well as operation and
maintenance shall be such as to preclude accidents or injury to personnel
or equipment and shall include, as appropriate, coupling guards. This
specification requires total compliance with all current OSHA, federal,
state and local codes, laws, and ordinances.
3.3.8.1 Human Performance/Human Engineering. All controls and operations
necessarily attended by personnel (not remote or automatic) shall be
designed with consideration of the operator and/or maintenance operations
in view. Controls, lube points, service items, shall be readily and
safely located, easy to operate and of such configuration as to be easily
verified, as to positive operation.
3.4 Documentation.
3.4.1 Drawings and Data. The fan manufacturer shall furnish, as part
of this specification, certified drawings and descriptive material as
follows:
a. General design, arrangement, and construction features of
all components furnished.
b. Size, weight, and material specifications for all major com-
ponents and critical construction features.
c. Mounting details shall be shown clearly and all drawings shall
be prepared in accordance with 3.4.2.
3.4.2 Drawing Form. Drawings shall be in accordance with Supplemental
Instructions to MIL-D-1000, dated 18 February 1975. Existing parts
drawings shall conform to Form 3, Categories E and F. New drawings
shall conform to Form 2, Categories E and F.
3.4.3 Manuals. Six (6) copies each of the fan operation and maintenance
manuals shall be provided.
3.4.4 Manual Form. Manuals will be in manufacturer's standard format.
3.4.5 Performance Curve. Manufacturer shall furnish six (6) prints
of a certified performance curve or chart showing pressure-volume-power
characteristics.
8
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified in
the contract, the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of
all inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise
specified, the manufacturer may utilize his own facilities or any
commercial laboratory acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser
reserves the right to perform any of the inspections set forth in the
specification where such inspections are deemed necessary to assure
supplies and services conform to prescribed requirements.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections.
4.2.1 General. The fan specified herein shall be inspected to verify
that the materials of construction, physical dimensions and workmanship
conform to the requirements as specified herein.
The manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of
required inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed
by the Purchaser's inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector
shall not relieve the manufacturer from compliance with the require-
ments as specified herein. All test records, whether witnessed or not,
shall be made available to the Purchaser on demand.
Upon delivery, verification of inspection of the equipment shall be
conducted at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delivery, and
acceptance shall be based upon compliance to the requirements as specified
herein.
4.2.3 Coating. Manufacturer shall certify that the internal epoxy
corrosion resistant coating conforms to the requirements of 3.2.3.2.
4.2.4 Performance. Manufacturer shall furnish a certified performance
curve for the fan performance conditions specified in 3.1. This certifi-
cation shall establish the performance characteristics either by testing
of the fan unit being furnished, or by testing of other like units. Per-
formance testing will meet the requirements of AMCA Standard 210 - "Test
Code For Air Moving Devices".
4.2.4 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the fan to meet any of the
requirements and tests of this specification shall be considered cause
for rejection. All equipment that does not conform to this specification
may be reworked by the manufacturer utilizing rework procedures approved
by the Purchaser with no additional cost to Purchaser.'
9
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the
fan manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in proper operating
condition with no refurbishing needed before installation or use. All
parts shall be carefully matchmarked for reassembly. All exposed finished
parts shall be safely crated and properly protected for shipment as noted
above. Preservatives shall be used to the extent necessary, but shall
be noted, with removal instructions included, in the maintenance manual.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the fan manu-
facturer shall be appropriately crated and packaged in accordance with
commercial practice to insure acceptance by common carrier for safe
transportation and shall be delivered F.O.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, UT 84074
MARK FOR: Surface Division BB#4
00
6.0 NOTES
6.1 The margins of this specification are marked with a vertical line
to indicate where changes (additions, modifications, corrections, deletions)
from the previous issue were made. This was done as a convenience only
and the Government assumes no liability whatsoever for any inaccuracies
in these notations. Bidders and contractors are cautioned to evaluate
the requirements of this document based on the entire content irrespective
of the marginal notation and relationship to the last previous issue.
0i
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
GLYCOL-WATER TANK
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-05
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
DEAN J. DIVEX C. E. Robinson
Surface Combustion Division Contract Engineer
Surface Combustion Division
RANKLIN G.#N•kR
Surface Comr6stion Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
ICHARD W. MISIEWICZ
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
DATED
DA3 580lll D 5lllllIIIllA016045
DA3,583 0 7 DAO016045-1
1.0 SCOPE
1. 1 This specification establishes the requirements for the design, fabrication,
painting, testing, acceptance and delivery of a glycol-water tank complete with
supports and accessories to be used in the Deactivation Furnace.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2. 1 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of
this specification to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise indicated,
the issue in effect on the date of invitation to bid, or request for proposal
shall apply.
SPECIFICATION:
ASME American Society of Mechanical Engineers
UBC Uniform Building Code
NIMA National Insulation Manufacturers Association.
3
3. 0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. The glycol-water tank D-672 specified herein shall be con-
structed of carbon steel. The tank shall have nozzles, manhole, and steam
coil as shown in Section 10.1, Figure 1.
3.2 Characteristics
3.2.1 Performance. The glycol-water tank shall be capable of containing water
having a specific gravity of 1.0 at pressures up to 14.9 pounds per square inch
gauge (p.s.i.g.) and 40 inches water gauge (in. w.c.) vacuum, at temperatures
from 50 to 180 degrees Fahrenheit (OF) without leaking. The tank shall be
tested in accordance with 4.2.2.
3.2.2 Tank Coatings
3.2.2.1 Exterior Insulation. The manufacturer shall insulate the sides and
top of the tank with a two inch thickness of polyurethane foam insulation,
except where access is required for nozzles, temperature gauge, and manhole.
Where sharp corners are encountered, suitable hand layup reinforcements
and/or fillets shall be installed to prevent damage from moisture or frost.
A suitable protective overcoating of at least 100 mil thickness of resin and
fiberglas strand shall be applied over the insulation, and be covered with an
exterior white pigmented gel coat. The overall coefficient of heat transfer
("U" factor) shall not exceed 0.10 British thermal unit per hour per square
foot - 0 F. The insulation and weather protection shall be capable of withstanding
a tank wall temperature of 2000 F. maximum to 500 F. minimum and outdoor
temperatures of 1100 F. maximum to -100 F. minimum.
3.2.2.2 Interior. The manufacturer shall prepare the interior surface of
the glycol-water tank so that the tank painting shall be in accordance with
the following:
a. Protect all, machined surfaces during painting.
b. Painting shall be done in clean, dry, well-ventilated spaces. The air
temperature shall be between 600 F. and 900 F. or in accordance with the
paint manufacturer's instructions. Materials shall be thoroughly mixed,
and there shall be no settling or separation of ingredients during painting.
Unless otherwise specified, coatings may be applied by any method that
will ensure the application of smooth, uniform, continuous film free from
dried overspray, runs, sags, blisters, orange peel, or other imperfection.
Freshly painted material shall not be exposed to conditions that will
harm the paint.
4
c. Prior to application, all mill scale, oil, foreign substances and weld
sag must be removed. All surfaces shall be sandblasted to a white metal
blast finish with a maximum 1 1/2 mil profile.
d. All interior surfaces receive one coat of Glidden Paint Co. G• Gard
Epoxy Chromate Metal Primer No. 5251 or approved equal. This coat shall
have a dry coat film thickness of 1 1/2 mil thickness.
Two finish coats of Glidden Paint Co. Finish Paint No. 5244 (Medium Gray),
or approved equal, shall be applied. These coats shall each have a dry
film thickness of 3.0 mils.
Sufficient time shall be allowed between coats to assure proper drying
prior to application of the next coat.
e. Filing, sanding, other dressing operations shall not be done on a part
or assembly after it has been finish painted. Unless otherwise specified,
welding, soldering, or brazing shall not be permitted on any assembly after
it has been finish painted.
3.3 Design and Construction. The glycol-water tank specified herein shall
be designed and constructed to comply with established industry standards and
ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1 which shall
govern in all cases, except that where conflict is apparent. (Tank need not
be stamped.) The tank and supports shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with seismic loading considerations defined in the Uniform
Building Code, 1973 Edition, Chapter 23. The tank insulation characteristics
shall be certified through results obtained for similar materials and thickness
per the standards of the National Insulation Manufacturers Association.
3.3.1 Tank Shell. All clips, supports and brackets, that are welded to the
interior of the tank shell shall be of the same quality of material as the
part of the tank shell to which they are attached, unless otherwise specified
herein. Plate layouts shall be so arranged that openings, brackets or
other attachments will not be welded to a plate joint. Exceptions to the
above are required in writing prior to approval. Unless otherwise specified
herein, plate joint areas affected shall be X-rayed to prove soundness
afterwards to meet this specification.
3.3.2 Flanges. Fabricated steel flanges shall be used for manhole openings.
Bolt holes in fabricated flanges shall be drilled or punched and shall straddle
normal centerlines. Burning of holes shall not be permitted.
5
3.3.2.1 Attachments inside or outside shall be sealwelded, in
addition to strength welds, with a minimum of 1/8 inch throat. All
longitudinal and circumferential butt-joints shall be double-welded.
(Single welded butt-joints may be made with a backing strip only
where double-welded joints cannot be made.)
3.3.2.2 Welding. All welders shall be qualified in accordance
with ASME Section IX.
3.3.3 Identification Marking. All nozzles or attaching interfaces shall
be securely tagged or otherwise permanently numbered in accordance
with the nozzle schedule shown in Section 10.1, Figure 1.
The manufacturer shall furnish and attach to the outside wall of the
tank a permanent, flush-mounted stainless steel name plate showing
"CAMDS Specification Number ECDS04-05".
3.3.4 Workmanship. The inside and outside of the glycol-water tank
including brackets, shall be cleaned of weld spatter, slag, flux deposits, burrs
and splinters, loose mill scale, and all other foreign matter. All sharp
corners or edges shall be broken to prevent harm to persons coming
into contact with the unit.
6
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified, in the contract,
the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of all inspection require-
ments as specified herein. Except as otherwise specified the manufacturer may
utilize his (jwn facilities or any commercial laboratory acceptable to the Purchaser.
The Purchaser reserves the right to perform any of the inspections set forth in
the specification where such inspections are deemed necessary to assure supplies
and services conform to prescribed requirements.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections.
4.2.1 General. Components of the glycol-water tank shall be inspected to verify
that the materials, construction, physical dimensions and workmanship conform
to the requirements as specified herein.
The manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of required
inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed by the Purchaser's
inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector shall not relieve the
manufacturer from compliance with the requirements as specified herein.
Upon delivery, verification of inspection of the equipment shall be conducted
at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delivery, and acceptance shall
be based upon compliance to the requirements as specified herein.
4.2.2 Tests. The glycol-water tank shall be pneumatically tested at 1 1/2 times
the maximum allowable working pressure (see 3.2. 1) in accordance with ASME,
Section VIII, Division 1, Paragraph UG-100. Duration of the leak test shall be a
minimum of four (4) hours.
Notes:
1. All openings shall be equipped with leak tight gaskets (using blind flanges
except at air entry).
2. The glycol-water tank shall be isolated from pressure or vacuum source
during test holding period.
3. All defects disclosed as a result of this testing shall be remedied.
4. Tests must be repeated in case of failure or repair.
5. All repairs shall be made with new materials and no caulking of screwed
joints, holes or cracks will be acceptable.
4.2.3 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the glycol-water tank to meet any of the
requirements and tests of this specification shall be considered cause for rejection.
All equipment that does not conform to this specification may be reworked by the
manufacturer utilizing rework procedures approved by the Purchaser with no
additional cost to the Purchaser.
7
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the glycol-water
tank manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in proper operating condition
with no refurbishing needed before installation or use. The glycol-water tank
shall be as fully assembled for shipment. Preservatives shall be used to the
extent necessary, but shall be noted, with removal instructions included.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the glycol-water tank
manufacturer shall be appropriately packaged in accordance with commercial
practice to insure acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation and
shall be delivered F .0 .B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, Utah 84074
Mark "For Surface Combustion BB #4"
8
10.0 APPENDIX
10.1 List of Figures
Figure No. Title
1 Nominal 1000 Gallon Glycol-Water Tank.
/-4 4X 4X I 2" UNION.
(TY P)(4) REO'D, (2 REQ'D,) TANK
N~ AB
/ H
BA
) - - F)2" SCH. BO PIPE - 5 TURNS
45 PLAN - TANK HEATER
/
.C5 PLANL
CD pLAN 
__ __
M ARK SIZE DESCRIPTION
A 2" 2000*FcS. ScCD. IFJL'..PL..-TEAMHTR. JUTLET
12. " -- B 2" 2000o FS. S M.RD FU-LL CPLC: STEAM HT'R. INLET
E \ ,C 3" 15ORE LWN. FLANGE GLYCOL-WATER OUTLE F
D 3/4" 2000#F.S. SCR'D. CPLG.TEMP, INDICATOR
E 24" MANHOLE W/COVER, GASKET & BOLTS
F 3" 15(/# R.F LW.N. FLANGE GLYCOL-WATER INLET
G 31" 150 FE LW.N. FLANGED TANK VENT
S0 /---® .H 313" 150 RF LW.N. FLANGED W/BLJND FLG. FILL CONN.
1o D. 2" 2000 F S. SCR'D. CLPG. LEVEL ALARM
I .F IG , I
" --- NOM. 1000 GALLON
,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ G LY C O L W A T E R TA N K
4'X41-- X Y• D -672
ELEVATION (TYP)(4) 4 Q'D.
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
GLYCOL-WATER TANK
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDSO4-05-A
REVISED BY: CONCURRENCE:
•. WILLIS A. A. KEEL
Surface Division Contract Engineer
Surface Division
.---- /, / -/
FRANKLIN G.. RINKER
Surface Division.
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
AIHR W. ' -WM>' "JISEWICZ.
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
Dated: September 17, 1975
Revised Date: March 28, 1977
ID l IIIIIIIIIIII-lIII 1   iDAa58384 DA0168049.1
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for the design,
fabrication, painting, testing, acceptance and delivery of a glycol-water
tank complete with supports and accessories to be used in the De-
activation Furnace.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of
this specification to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise in-
dicated, the issue in effect on the date of invitation to bid, or request
for proposal shall apply.
SPECIFICATION:
ASME American Society of Mechanical Engineers
UBC Uniform Building Code
NIMA National Insulation Manufacturers Association
3
3.0 REQUIREM4ENTS
3.1 General. The glycol-water tank D-672 specified herein shall be con-
structed of carbon steel. The tank shall have nozzles, manhole, and steam
coil as shown in Section 10.1, Figure 1.
3.2 Characteristics.
3.2.1 Performance. The glycol-water tank shall be capable of containing
water having a specific gravity of 1.0 at pressures up to 14.9 pounds per
square inch gauge (p.s.i.g.) and 40 inches water gauge (in. w.c.) vacuum, at
temperatures from 50 to 180 degrees Fahrenheit (*F) without leaking. The tank
shall be tested in accordance with 4.2.2.
3.2.2 Tank Coatings.
3.2.2.1 Exterior Insulation. The manufacturer shall insulate the sides and
top of the tank with a two inch thickness of polyurethane foam insulation,
except where access is required for nozzles, temperature gauge, and manhole.
Where sharp corners are encountered, suitable hand layup reinforcements and/or
fillets shall be installed to prevent damage from moisture or frost. A
suitable protective overcoating of at least 100 mil thickness of resin and
fiberglas strand shall be applied over the insulation, and be covered with
an exterior white pigmented gel coat. The overall coefficient of heat transfer
("U" factor) shall not exceed 0.10 British thermal unit per hour per square
foot - *F. The insulation and weather protection shall be capable of with-
standing a tank wall temperature of 2000 F. maximum to 50* F. minimum and
outdoor temperatures of 110 F. maximum to -100 F. minimum.
3.2.2.2 Interior. The manufacturer shall prepare the interior surface of
the glycol-water tank so that the tank painting shall be in accordance with
the following:
a. Protect all machined surfaces during painting.
b. Painting shall be done in clean, dry, well-ventilated spaces. The
air temperature shall be between 600 F. and 90* F. or in accordance with the
paint manufacturer's instructions. Materials shall be thoroughly mixed,
and there shall be no settling or separation of ingredients during painting.
Unless otherwise specified, coatings may be applied by any method that will
ensure the application of smooth, uniform, continuous film free from dried
overspray, runs, sags, blisters, orange peel, or other imperfection. Freshly
painted material shall not be exposed to conditions that will harm the paint.
c. Prior to application, all mill scale, oil, foreign substances and
weld sag must be removed. All surface shall be sandblasted to a white metal
blast finish with a maximum 1 1/2 mil profile.
4
d. All interior surfaces receive one coat of Rustoleum No. 1060 or
approved equal. This coat shall have a dry coat film thickness of 1 1/2
mil.
Two finish coats of Rustoleum No. 470 shall be applied. These coats shall each
have a dry film thickness of 3.0 mils.
Sufficient time shall be allowed between coats to assure proper drying prior to
application of the next coat.
e. Filing, sanding, other dressing operations shall not be done on a
part or assembly after it has been finish painted. Unless otherwise specified,
welding, soldering, or brazing shall not be permitted on any assembly after
it has been finish painted.
3.3 Design and Construction. The glycol-water tank specified herein shall
be designed and constructed to comply with established industry standards and
ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1 which shall
govern in all cases, except that where conflict is apparent. (Tank need not
be stamped.) The tank and supports shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with seismic loading considerations defined in the Uniform Building
-Code, 1973 Edition, Chapter 23. The tank insulation characteristics shall
be certified through results obtained for similar materials and thickness per
the standards of the National Insulation Manufacturers Assocation.
3.3.1 Tank Shell. All clips, supports and brackets, that are welded to the
interior of the tank shell shall be of the same quality of material as the
part of the tank shell to which they are attached, unless otherwise specified
herein. Plate layouts shall be so arranged that openings, brackets or
other attachements will not be welded to a plate joint. Exceptions to the
above are required in writing prior to approval. Unless otherwise specified
herein, plate joint areas affected shall be X-rayed to prove soundness
afterwards to meet this specification.
3.3.2 Flanges. Fabricated steel flanges shall be used for manhole openings.
Bolt holes in fabricated flanges shall be drilled or punched and shall straddle
normal centerlines. Burning of holes shall not be permitted.
3.3.2.1 Attachments inside or outside shall be seal welded, in addition
to strength welds, with a minimum of 1/8 inch throat. All longitudinal and
circumferential butt-joints shall be double-welded. (Single welded butt-
joints may be made with a backing strip only where double-welded joints
cannot be made.)
5
3.3.2.2 Welding. All welders shall be qualified in accordance with ASME
Section IX.
3.3.3 Identification Marking. All nozzles or attaching interfaces shall
be securely tagged or otherwise permanently numbered in accordance with the
nozzle schedule shown in Section 10.1, Figure 1.
The manufacturer shall furnish and attach to the outside wall of the tank a
permanent, flush-mounted stainless steel name plate showing "CANDS Speci-
fication Number ECDS04-05".
3.3.4 Workmanship. The inside and outside of the glycol-water tank including
brackets, shall be cleaned of weld spatter, slag, flux deposits, burrs and
splinters, loose mill scale, and all other foreign matter. All sharp corners
or edges shall be broken to prevent harm to persons coming into contact with
the unit.
6
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified, in the contract,
the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of all inspection require-
ments as specified herein. Except as otherwise specified the manufacturer may
utilize his own facilities or any commercial laboratory acceptable to the Pur-
chaser. The Purchaser reserves the right to perform any of the inspections set
forth in the specification where such inspections are deemed necessary to assure
supplies and services conform to prescribed requirements.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections.
4.2.1 General. Components of the glycol-water tank shall be inspected to verify
that the materials, construction, physical dimensions and workmanship conform
to the requirements as specified herein.
The manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of required
inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed by the Purchaser's
inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector shall not relieve the manu-
facturer from compliance with the requirements as specified herein.
Upon delivery, verification of inspection of the equipment shall be conducted
at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delivery, and acceptance shall
be based upon compliance to the requirements as specified herein.
4.2.2 Tests. The glycol-water tank shall be statically tested. Duration of
the leak test shall be a minimum of four (4) hours.
Notes:
1. All openings shall be equipped with leak tight gaskets (using blind
flanges except at air entry).
2. The glycol-water tank shall be isolated from pressure or vacuum source
during test holding period.
3. All defects disclosed as a result of this testing shall be remedied.
4. Tests must be repeated in case of failure or repair.
5. All repairs shall be made with new materials and no caulking of screwed
joints, holes or cracks will be acceptable.
4.2.3 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the glycol-water tank to meet any of
the requirements and tests of this specification shall be considered cause for
rejection. All equipment that does not conform to this specification may be re-
worked by the manufacturer utilizing rework procedures approved by the Purchaser
with no additional cost to the Purchaser.
7
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the glycol-
water tank manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in proper operating
condition with no refurbishing needed before installation or use. The glycol-
water tank shall be as fully assembled for shipment. Preservatives shall be
used to the extent necessary, but shall be noted, with removal instructions
included.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the glycol-water tank
manufacturer shall be appropriately packaged in accordance with commercial
practice to insure acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation and
shall be delivered F.O.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, Utah 84074
Mark "For Surface Division BB #4"
6.0 NOTES
6.1 The margins of this specification are marked with a vertical line to
indicate where changes (additions, modifications, corrections, deletions)
from the previous issue were made. This was done as a convenience only and
the Government assumes no liability whatsoever for any inaccuracies in these
notations. Bidders and contractors are cautioned to evaluate the requirements
of this document based on the entire content irrespective of the marginal
notation and relationship to the last previous issue.
8
10.0 APPENDIX
10.1 List of Figures.
Figure No. Title
1 Nominal 1000 Gallon Glycol-Water Tank.
9
4X 411Z" UNION
(r Y R.) (4) R EO'D- TANK
B AA
F2" SCH. BO PIPE - 5 TURNS
4 PLAN - TANK HEATER
MARK SIZE DESCRIPTION
A 2* 2000~ wE.S. SUM~ FULL CPLG. STEAM HTR. OUTLET-B. 2' 2000 #ES. SCRD FUJLL CPLG. STEAM HTR, INLET
H- ( G -C 3•" 150Q R.E LyWN. FLANGE GLYCOL-WATER OUTLET
D 3/4 2000*F.S. SCR'D. CPLG. TEMR INDICATOR
E 24" MANHOLE w/COVER,.GASKET & BOLTS
1F 3" 150 R.E LWN. FLANGE GAYCOL-WATER INLET
G .3" 150* F'F LW.N. FLANGED TANK VENT
,-'-..........B, H 3" 150* RE LW.N. FANGMAWBND FLG. FILL CONN.V 1 2.
0 2. o S. scR'D. CLPG. L ALARM
LO b FIG. I
NOM. 1000 GALLON
GLYCOL WATER TANK
ELE VAT04O0-672ELEVATION (T YR.)(4)-EQ' D.
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
MOTOR CONTROL CENTER FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-11
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
WILLIAM M. GROOMS" TOA .Sg'T
Surface Combustion Division Surface Combustion D vision
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
RICHARD W. IEWC
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
August 22, 1975
DATED
DA358336 DA01 6051-1
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for the design,
manufacture, fabrication, performance and acceptance of a motor
control center assembly.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in
effect on the date of invitation for bid or request for proposal form
a part of this specification to the extent specified herein.
Specification:
ECDS04-52 Special Motor Starting Equipment
Drawings:
ECDS04-550-02 Single-Line Diagram
ECDS04-556-01 MCC #1 - Layout and Schedules
Other Publications:
Supplemental Instructions to MIL-D-I000 for Drawings dated
18 February 1975.
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Act
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part
of this specification to the extent specified herein. Unless other-
wise indicated, the issue in effect on the date of invitation for
bids or request for proposal shall apply.
Standards:
UL Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc.
NEMA National Electrical Manufacturers' Association
NFPA National Fire Protection Association
NFPA 70-1975 (National Electric Code)
3
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. The motor control center shall consist of an arrangement
of full voltage reversing and non-reversing combination magnetic
starters, fusible switches, two-speed starters, transformers, panelboards
and auxiliary equipment shown on drawings ECDS04-550-02 and ECDS04-556-01
and as described herein. The assemblies will carry the UL label for
motor control centers and will conform to applicable provisions of
paragraph 340 of the NEC.
3.2 Characteristics. The motor control centers shall be suitable
for operation of 460 volt, 3 phase, 60 hertz (hz) motors which have
been derated for high ambient temperature, high altitude use at a
1.15 service factor. Thermal overloads shall be sized and rated
accordingly. Electrical service is 480/277 volts, 3 phase, 4 wire,
grounded neutral.
3o2.1 Performance Characteristics.
3.2.1.1 Motors starters shall be circuit breaker combination starters
with motor circuit protection to provide both short circuit interruupting
and current limiting capacity for an available short circuit current
of 30,000 amperes root-mean-square (romoso) symmetrical (sym°). Starters
shall be self-contained removable assemblies of plug-in design with all
wiring to terminal blocks in each unit.
3.2.1.1.1 Two-speed reversing starting shall be accomplished by
installation of a standard full voltage reversing combination starter
and a two-speed (two-winding, constant torque) starter as defined in
ECDS04-52 in adjacent vertical compartments. The reversing starter
shall be furnished without overcurrent trips and shall be wired by
others to provide jog forward and reverse operation on the low speed
contactor only.
3.2.1.2 Control voltage shall be provided from a separate 120 volt,
single phase, 60 hzo source, Disconnects shall be provided with an
auxiliary interlock contact for control isolation, Coils shall be designed
for 120 volt operation and shall have unit control circuit fusing.
3.2.1.3 Bus shall be braced to withstand the maximum available fault
current* Horizontal bus shall be at the center of the unit and rated
minimum 600 amperes. Vertical bus shall be rated 300 amperes and shall
be located so as to provide dead front isolation with unit devices removed.
Ground bus shall be provided with ground lugs for size #2 wire at both
ends,
4
3.2.1.4 Internal Wiring shall be copper; type XHHN, MTW, or approved
equal rated not less than 90* C., and shall be minimum size #14.
3.2.1.5 Wiring space shall be provided for interwiring by others.
Each vertical section shall have an isolated vertical wireway the
full height of the section. Space shall be provided in the bottom
of each vertical section so as to create a continuous horizontal wireway
at the bottom of the assembly.
3.2.1.6 MCC will include equipment specified in ECDS04-52 and
furnished-sparately.
3.2.2 Physical Characteristics.
3.2.2.1 Construction shall be compatible with NEMA Class I, Type B
standards for motor control centers. Individual vertical sections
shall have nominal dimensions of 20 inches deep by 90 inches high.
Lifting eyes and base mounting channels shall be provided for each
shipping section. The entire assembly shall be braced for fault currents
of 30,000 amperes r.m.s, sym., minimum. Enclosures shall be NEMA 1,
gasketedo
3.2.2.2 Paint shall be baked enamel of the manufacturer's standard
color. One can of touch-up paint for each color used shall be included
as part of this specification.
3.2.3 Environmental Conditions. The equipment shall be designed and
rated for continuous operation indoors at an altitude pressure of
12 pounds per square inch absolute (p.s.i.ao), ambient temperatures
from 10* C. to 500 C., and relative humidity from 10 to 90%, non-
condensing. Use of aluminum or aluminum alloys shall not be permitted
because of potential exposure to a caustic environment.
3.3 Design and Construction.
3.3.1 Materials shall be new, of first quality, and properly protected
against deterioration by plating, painting, galvanizing, sherardizing
or other accepted industry practice. Enclosures shall be steel of gage
specified by the NEC. Bus bars shall be tin-plated copper.
3.3.2 Engraved nameplates shall be provided for each unit with legends
as shown on drawing ECDSO4-556-01o
3.3.3 Workmanship shall reflect best industry standards, such that
the equipment shall be free of burrs, sharp edges, loose or missing
bolts, and paint defects.
5
3.4 Documentation.
3.4.1 Drawings. The Vendor shall prepare and furnish drawings
and descriptive information for the equipment furnished under this
specification. Six sets shall be furnished which include unit wiring
diagrams and overall dimensions for each unit and the assembly.
All drawings shall be prepared in accordance with "Supplementary
Instructions to MIL-D-1000" dated 18 February 1975. Exising parts
drawings shall conform to Form 3, Categories E and0F. New drawings
shall conform to Form 2, Categories E and F.
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified in
the contract, the Vendor is responsible for the performance of all
inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise
specified, he may use his own facilities or any commercial source acceptable
to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right to perform any of
the inspections set forth in the specification where such inspections are
deemed necessary to assure materials and installation conform to prescribed
requirements.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections.
4.2.1 General. Components of the system shall be inspected to verify
that the materials of construction, physical dimensions, and workmanship
conform to the requirements specified.
The Vendor shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of required
inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed by Purchaser's
inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector shall not relieve
the Vendor or manufacturer from compliance to the specified requirements.
4.2.2 Tests. Prior to shipment, the equipment shall be tested by the
manufacturer to assure that it is mechanically and electrically
operable. The entire assembly shall check free of shorts, grounds and
open connections.
4.2.3 Acceptance/ReJection. Failure of the system or any of its
components to meet any of the requirements and tests of this specification
shall be considered cause for rejection. All equipment that does not
conform to this specification shall be reworked or replaced by the
Vendor using procedures approved by the Purchaser and without additional
cost to the Purchaser.
i 7
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the
control center manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in
proper operating condition with no refurbishing needed before install-
ation or use. The equipment shall be as fully assembled as feasible for
shipment. All parts shall be carefully marked for reassembly. All
exposed finished parts shall be safely crated and properly protected for
shipment as noted above. Preservatives shall be used to the extent
necessary, but shall be noted, with removal instructions included.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the control
center manufacturer shall be appropriately packaged in accordance
with commercial practice to ensure acceptance by common carrier
for safe transporation and shall be delivered F.O.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, Utah 84074
Mark "For Surface Combustion BB#4"
8
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
MOTOR CONTROL CENTER FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-11-A
REVISED BY: CONCURRENCE:
W. WILLIS A. A. KEEL
Surface Division Surface Division
FRANKLIN G. 'RINKER
Surface Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
RCHARD W. MIS IEWICZ~
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
DATE: August .22,1975
REVISED DATE: March 28, 1977
D II I0I/IIIIIIIII i lll
DA358345 DA01 6060-1
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for the design,
manufacture, fabrication, performance and acceptance of a motor
control center assembly.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in
effect on the date of invitation for bid or request for proposal form
a part of this specification to the extent specified herein.
Specification:
ECDS04-52 Special Motor Starting Equipment
Drawings:
ECDS04-550-02 Single-Line Diagram
ECDS04-556-01 MCC #1 - Layout and Schedules
Other Publications:
Supplemental Instructions to MIL-D-1000 for Drawings dated
18 February 1975.
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Act
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part
of this specification to the extent specified herein. Unless other-
wise indicated, the issue in effect on the date of invitation for
bids or request for proposal shall apply.
Standards:
UL Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc.
NEMA National Electrical Manufacturers' Association
NFPA National Fire Protection Association
NFPA 70-1975 (National Electric Code)
3
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. The motor control center shall consist of a normal-
power group and an emergency-power group of full voltage reversing
and non-reversing combination magnetic starters, fusible switches, two-
speed starters, transformers, panelboards and auxiliary equipment shown
on drawings ECDS04-550-02 and ECDS04-556-01 and as described herein.
The assemblies will carry the UL label for motor control centers and
will conform to applicable provisions of paragraph 340 of the NEC.
3.2 Characteristics. The motor control centers shall be suitable
for operation of 460 volt, 3 phase, 60 hertz (hz) motors which have
been derated for high ambient temperature, high altitude use at a
1.15 service factor. Thermal overloads shall be sized and rated
accordingly. Electrical service is 480/277 volts, 3 phase, 4 wire,
grounded neutral.
3.2.1 Performance Characteristics.
3.2.1.1 Motor starters shall be circuit breaker combination starters
with motor circuit protection to provide both short circuit interrupting
and current limiting capacity for an available short circuit current
of 30,000 amperes root-mean-square (r.m.s.) symmetrical (sym.). Starters
shall be self-contained removable assemblies of plug-in design with all
wiring to terminal blocks in each unit.
3.2.1.1.1 Two-speed reversing starting shall be accomplished by in-
stallation of a standard full voltage reversing combination starter
and a two-speed (two-winding, constant torque) starter as defined in
ECDS04-52 in adjacent vertical compartments. The reversing starter
shall be furnished without overcurrent trips and shall be wired by
others to provide jog forward and reverse operation on the low speed
contactor only.
3.2.1.2 Control voltage shall be provided from a separate 120 volt,
single phase, 60 hertz source. Disconnects shall be provided with an
auxiliary interlock contact for control isolation. Coils shall be
designed for 120 volt operation and shall have unit control circuit
fusing.
3.2.1.3 Bus shall be braced to withstand the 42,000 amperes symmetrical
fault current. Horizontal bus shall be at the center of the unit and
rated minimum 600 amperes. Vertical bus shall be rated 300 amperes
and shall be located so as to provide dead front isolation with unit
devices removed. Ground bus shall be provided with ground lugs for
size #4 wire at both ends.
4
3.2.1.4 Internal wiring shall be copper; type XHHN, MTW, or approved
equal rated not less than 900 C., and shall be minimum size #14.
3.2.1.5 Wiring space shall be provided for interwiring by others.
Each vertical section shall have an isolated vertical wireway the
full height of the section. Space shall be provided in the bottom
of each vertical section so as to create a continuous horizontal wire-
way at the bottom of the assembly.
3.2.1.6 MCC will include equipment specified in ECDS04-52 and furnished
separately.
3.2.2 Physical Characteristics.
3.2.2.1 Construction shall be compatible with NEMA Class I, Type B
standards for motor control centers. Individual vertical sections
shall have nominal dimensions of 20 inches deep by 90 inches high.
Lifting eyes and base mounting channels shall be provided for each
shipping section. The entire assembly shall be braced for fault
currents of 42,000 amperes r.m.s. sym., minimum. Enclosures shall
be NEMA 1, gasketed.
3.2.2.2 Paint shall be baked enamel of the manufacturer's standard
color. One can of touch-up paint for each color used shall be included
as part of this specification.
3.2.3 Environmental Conditions. The equipment shall be designed and
rated for continuous operation indoors at an altitude pressure of
12 pounds per square inch absolute (p.s.i.a.), ambient temperatures
from 100 C. to 50* C., and relative humidity from 10 to 90%, non-
condensing. Use of aluminum or aluminum alloys shall not be permitted
because of potential exposure to a caustic environment.
3.3 Design and Construction.
3.3.1 Materials shall be new, of first quality, and properly protected
against deterioration by plating, painting, galvanizing, sherardizing
or other accepted industry practice. Enclosures shall be steel of
gauge specified by the NEC. Bus bars shall be tin-plated copper.
3.3.2 Engraved nameplates shall be provided for each unit with legends
as shown on drawing ECDS04-556-01.
3.3.3 Workmanship shall reflect best industry standards, such that
the equipment shall be free of burrs, sharp edges, loose or missing
bolts, and paint defects.
5
3.4 Documentation.
3.4.1 Drawings. The Vendor shall prepare and furnish drawings and
descriptive information for the equipment furnished under this specifi-
cation. Six sets shall be furnished which include unit wiring diagrams
and overall dimensions for each unit and the assembly. All drawings
shall be prepared in accordance with "Supplementary Instructions to
MIL-D-1000" dated 18 February 1975. Existing parts drawings shall con-
form to Form 3, Categories E and F. New drawings shall conform to
Form.2, Categories E and F.
6
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified in
the contract, the Vendor is responsible for the performance of all
inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise
specified, he may use his own facilities or any commercial source
acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right to per-
form any of the inspections set forth in the specification where such
inspections are deemed necessary to assure materials and installation
conform to prescribed requirements.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections.
4.2.1 General. Components of the system shall be inspected to verify
that the materials of construction, physical dimensions, and workmanship
conform to the requirements specified.
The Vendor shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of required
inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed by Purchaser's
inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector shall not relieve
the Vendor or manufacturer from compliance to the specified requirements.
4.2.2 Tests. Prior to shipment, the equipment shall be tested by the
manufacturer to assure that it is mechanically and electrically operable.
The entire assembly shall check free of shorts, grounds and open connec-
tions.
4.2.3 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the system or any of its
components to meet any of the requirements and tests of this specifi-
cation shall be considered cause for rejection. All equipment that
does not conform to this specification shall be reworked or replaced
by the Vendor using procedures approved by the Purchaser and without
additional cost to the Purchaser.
7
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the
control center manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in
proper operating condition with no refurbishing needed before installa-
tion or use. The equipment shall be as fully assembled as feasible
for shipment. All parts shall be carefully marked for reassembly. All
exposed finished parts shall be safely crated and properly protected
for shipment as noted above. Preservatives shall be used to the extent
necessary, but shall be noted, with removal instructions included.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the control
center manufacturer shall be appropriately packaged in accordance
with commercial practice to ensure acceptance by common carrier for
safe transportation and shall be delivered F.O.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, Utah 84074
MARK FOR: Surface Division BB#4
8
6.0 NOTES
6.1 The margins of this specification are marked with a vertical line
to indicate where changes (additions, modifications, corrections, deletions)
from the previous issue were made. This was done as a convenience only
and the Government assumes no liability whatsoever for any inaccuracies
in these notations. Bidders and contractors are, cautioned to evaluate
the requirements of this document based on the entire content irrespective
of the marginal notation and relationship to the last previous issue.
9
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
GROUNDING AND LIGHTNING PROTECTION SYSTEM
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-15
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
WILLIAM M. GROOMS C. E. ROBINSON
Surface Combustion Division Surface Combustion Division
S/
'FRANKLIN G. RINKER
Surface CombUstion Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
RICHARD W. MISIEWICZ §2
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
August 18, 1975DAl58hI'8DA0 -
DATED DA3683 4 8 DAO1 60e-3-
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for the material,
installation, testing and acceptance of the lightning protection and
grounding system for the Deactivation Furnace System including all tests
and inspections to provide a "Master Label" installation.
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Dotuments. The following documents of the issue in
effect on the date of invitation for bids or request for proposal form
a part of this proposal to the extent specified herein.
Drawings:
ECDS04-551-01 Grounding and Lightning Protection
Other Publications:
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Act
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of
this specification to the extent specified herein. Unless.otherwise
indicated, the issue in effect on the date of invitation for bids or
request for proposal shall apply.
Specifications:
UL Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc.
UL-96A, Master Labeled Lightning Protection Systems
Standards:
NFPA National Fire Protection Association International
NFPA 70-1975, The National Electric Code.
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. The electrical work specified herein shall be in accord-
ance with this specification, the drawing ECDS04-551-01, and UL-96A
which describe the furnishing of:
a. A complete Master Label lightning protection-system.
b. Lightning arrestors on the incoming services.
c. Building and equipment grounds.
The work of this vendor includes material, labor, trenching and back-
fill, equipment, tools, testing and all incidental auxiliary items to
provide an approved, complete and operable system.
3.2 Characteristics. The system shall be of the concealed type with
exposed conductors located only on the inside of the building. The
lightning protection system shall also serve as the building ground.
3.2.1 Environmental Conditions. The system will be required to function
in ambient temperatures from -100 F. to 1100 F. (-230 C. to 430 C.) in
a potentially caustic environment.
3.3 Design and Construction. It shall be the responsibility of this
vendor to assure that the design meetos the requirements of UL-96A and
the applicable provisions of NEC Article 250.
3.3.1 Materials. Aluminum and aluminum alloy materials will not be
permitted because of the caustic environment. Wire shall be copper;
ground rods shall be copper clad; clamps and grounding connectors
shall be copper or copper alloy.
3.3.1.1 Classification. Lightning protection materials shall be UL
Class I or II as required for the intended application. Lightning
arrestors shall be of the secondary type with a maximum line to ground
voltage of 650 volts root-mean-square (r.m.s.) and shall be installed
at the service entrance for each set of service conductors.
3.3.1.2 Conductors. Wire shall be bare stranded copper of the size
and type indicated on the drawing. Unless otherwise shown, main con-
ductors shall be American Wire Gage (AWG) 2; counterpoise shall be
AWG 00.
3.3.1.3 Equipment and Fixtures shall be of the capacity, size and
type shown on the schedule on the drawing and shall be the product of
the manufacturer listed on that schedule or shall be an equal approved
in advance by the Purchaser.
3.3.1.4 Other materials not specifically described, but required for
a complete and operable electrical installation, shall be new, first
quality of their respective kinds, and as selected and furnished
by the installing Vendor subject to the approval of the Purchaser,
3.3.2 Nameplates and Product Marking. All lightning conductors and
air terminals shall have the appropriate.UL type A or B labels attached.
After qualification of the lightning protection system, the UL type C
nameplate shall be affixed to the building.
3.3.3 Workmanship. All exposed conductors shall be run parallel or
perpendicular to building construction. Where grounding conductors
are attached to building steel, the steel shall be cleaned to bare
metal to assure proper contact. All joints and bolted connections shall
be mechanically and electrically sound and located so as to be concealed
and/or protected by the building structure. All roof and wall penetra-
tions shall be weatherproof. All equipment and fixtures forming part
of the work of this specification shall be installed in complete accord-
ance with the manufacturer's recommendations and all pertinent codes
and regulations.
3.3.4 Surface Conditions.
3.3.4.1 Inspection. Prior to all work of this specification, the Vendor
shall inspect the installed work of other trades and verify that all
such work is complete to the point where this installation may properly
commence.
3.3.4.2 Discrepancies. In the event of discrepancy, the Vendor shall
notify the Purchaser immediately and shall not proceed with installation
in areas of discrepancy until all such discrepancies have been fully
resolved.
3.3.4.3 Accuracy of Data. The drawing is diagrammatic in nature and
should not be scaled for dimensions. Unless specifically noted
otherwise, exact locations, distances, levels and other conditions
will be governed by job decisions of the Purchaser.
3.4 Documentation.
3.4.1 Materials List. Within thirty (30) days after award of contract,
and before electrical materials are delivered to the job site, the
Vendor shall submit to the Purchaser a complete list of all materials
and equipment proposed to be furnished and installed under this speci-
fication. This shall in no way be construed as permitting substitution
except as provided in 3.3.1.3 and 3.3.1.4 above.
3.4.2 Drawings. During progress of the work, the Vendor shall maintain
an accurate record of the installation, locating each item by dimension.
Upon completion of the electrical installation, he shall transfer all such
record data to blueline prints of the original drawings and deliver same
to the Purchaser.
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE
4.1 Responsibility for inspections. Unless otherwise specified in
the contract, the Vendor is responsible for the performance of all
inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise
specified, he may use his own facilities or any commercial source
acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right to perform
any of the inspections set forth in the specification where such inspections
are deemed necessary to assure materials and installation conform to
prescribed requirements.
4.2 QualityýConformance Inspections.
4.2.1 General. Components of the system shall be inspected to verify
that the materials of construction, physical dimensions, and workmanship
conform to the requirements specified.
The Vendor shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of required
inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed by Purchaser's
inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector, shall not relieve-
the Vendor or manufacturer from compliance to the specified requirements.
4.2.2 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the system or any of its com-
ponents to meet any of the requirements and tests of this specification
shall be considered cause for rejection. All equipment that does not
conform to this specification shall be reworked or replaced by the Vendor
using procedures approved by the Purchaser and without additional cost
to the Purchaser.
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
VENTILATION SYSTEM
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-19
Prepared by: Concurrence:
MICHAEL GROFF C EC. ROBINSON
Surface Combustion Division Contract Engineer
Surface Combustion Division
DEAN DIVER W ;MV
Surface Combustion Division Program Manager
Surface Combustion Division
Technical Approval:
RICHARD W. MISIEWICZ •--/
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
September 24, 1975
DATED
DA358349 DA01 6064-1
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for design, manu-
facture, purchase, installationg testing and acceptance of the Ventilation
System for the Deactivation Furnace installation.
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the exact issue
shown form a part of this specification to the extent specified herein.
In the event of a conflict between the documents reference herein and
the contents of this specification, the requirements of this speci-
fication shall be considered a superseding document.
Drawings:
ECDS04-152-01 Heating and Cooling Design Flow Diagram
ECDS04-152-02 Ventilating - Design Flow Diagram
ECDS04-352-01 Ventilation and Ductwork
Other Publications:
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970.
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents of the exact
issue shown form a part of this specification to the extent specified
herein. In the event of a conflict between the documents referenced
herein and the contents of this specification, the requirements of this
specification shall be considered a superseding document. In the absence
of a specific code, or where reference is made to the standard speci-
fications of a technical society by initials, the latest edition of the
specifications and standards of the following shall be used:
SMACNA - Sheet Metal and Air Conditioning Contractors
National Association.
-3-
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.l Definition. The Deactivation Furnace transfers large amocnts of
heat by convection and radiation to the DeactivatIou Furnace Barrier.
The heat is rejected from the barrier by using a heat transfer liquid
(glycol-water) and by ventilation air passing through the barrier. The
heat transfer liquid is recirculated through coils for the barrier
liquid cooling operation and barrier heat reclamation. The barrier
liquid cooling and heat reclamation systems shall be furnished and
installed by others as specified on ECDS04-152-01.
3.1.1 Barrier Liquid Cooling Operationo The rejected heat from the De-
activation Furnace is transferred to air circulated throughout the
barrier. The air is passed over cooling coils located within the barrier.
A 50 percent glycol-water mixture heat transfer liquid is passed through
the-cooling coils to absorb the heat from the air0 The heat transfer
liquid is stored in a 1000 gallon tank0 The liquid is pumped from the
tank to the glycol-water cooler. The glycol-water cooler transfers the
heat from the liquid to the atmosphere0  The cooled liquid is returned
to the barrier cooling coils0
3.1.2 Barrier Heat Reclamation0 A portion of the rejected heat from
-the Deactivation Furnace is reclaimed by diverting the liquid from the
glycol-water pump to various enclosure areas0 These various enclosure
areas consist of the barriero scrubber, brine retention tank and the
motor control center (MCC). Each enclosure area shall contain heaters
that reject heat supplied by this heat transfer liquid. The cooled
liquid is then returned to the glycol-water cooler for further cooling0
3.1.3 Ventilation. Barrier ventilation shall provide six (6) air
changes per hour0 This shall be accomplished by admitting outside air
at ambient temperature and pressure, and mixing it with circulating air
in the barrier, and then exhuasting the air to a Government furnished
filter. Two (2) fans shall provide for the circulation of air within
the barrier. The Cyclone-Afterburner ventilation shall consist of
admitting outside air into this area to maintain six (6) air changes per
hour, and exhausting the air through a plenum to the Government furnished
filter. The air passes through the Government furnished filter and fan
and is exhausted to the atmosphere0 Other enclosure area ventilation
shall operate when seasonal conditions are such that heating is not
required. This ventilation shall consist of admitting outside air in
and exhausting the air through gravity type roof ventilators to the
atmosphere.
3.1.4 Item Definition. The ventilation system shall be composed of the
six (6) areas as listed below:
a. Deactivation Furnace Barrier Enclosure Area
b. Scrubber Area
c. Brine Retention Tank Area
d. Effluent Gas Monitoring System (EGMS) Area
e. Motor Control Center (MCC) Area
f. Cyclone - Afterburner Area
These areas shall consist of various components that makeup the ventilation
system. These six (6) areas shall be subdivided into their individual
ventilation components. The function, performance and physical requirements
for these components are specified in 3.2. The design and construction
requirements are specified in 3.3.
--5--
302 Characteristics.
3.2.1 Performance Characteristics of Each Area. The areas
and their components contained within each area shall be as
specified herein.
3.2.1.1 Deactivation Furnace Barrier Enclosure Area. Outside air shall
be admitted into this area at the rate of 5000 standard cubic
feet per minute (soc.f.m.) or 6700 actual cubic feet per minute
(aoc.f.m.) at 110 degrees Fahrendeit (*F) and 12 pounds per
square inch absolute (p.s.ioa.) pressure. 3000 s.cof.m. of
this outside air is admitted into the Deactivation Furnace for
infiltration and combustion air. The air is then transported
to the cyclone. The remaining 2000 s.c.fom. of air is cir-
culated within the barrier. A portion of the heat rejected
from the Deactivation Furnace is transferred to air being cir-
culated within the barrier. The air is circulated past the
Deactivation Furnace, through two (2) parallel ducts, cooling
coils, and fan systems located within the barrier. The air
enters each system at approximately 300*F. and is cooled to
approximately 190*F. when it passes through each cooling coil
having the capacity of 1,200,000 British thermal units per
hour (Bot.uo/Hro) and a pressure drop of 0.66 inches water
column (in w.c.). Each fan has a capacity of 14,400 aocof.mo
of air at 190*Fo and 12 po.sigao pressure and a static pressure
of 1.24 in woc. At one fan discharge, 3100 a.c.fom. at 190°F.
and 12 p.s.i.a. is discharged through the air attenuation duct
section and the duct system to a Government filter and fan and
then exhausted to the atmosphere. The Ventilation Design Flow
Diagram is specified on ECDS04-152-02. The ventilation and duct work
requirements for this area are specified on ECDS04-352-01.
3.2.1.2 Scrubber Area. Outside air enters this area through
four (4) external rain louvers located in the wall near floor
elevation. The louvers shall be manually adjustable with bird
screen and admit air at the rate of 4300 a.c.f.m, at 50@F. and
12 p.s.i.ao The air shall be drawn upward from the louvers to one
gravity roof ventilator. The ventilator shall contain a bird screen
and a manually operated damper to control air flow from fully open
to fully closed. The requirements for this area are specified on
ECDS04-352-01o
3.2.1.3 Brine Retention Tank Area. Outside air enters this
area through two (2) external rain louvers located in the wall
near floor elevation. The louvers shall be manually adjustable
with bird screen and admit air at the rate of 1450 a.c.f.m, at
50°F. and 12 pos.i.a. total air flow. The air shall be drawn
upward from the louvers through two gravity roof ventilators.
Each ventilator shall contain a bird screen and a manually
operated damper to control air flow from fully open to fully
closed. The requirements for this area are specified on ECDS04-352-01.
3.2.1.4 EGMS Area. This area shall contain two (2) air con-
ditioning units with a cooling capacity of 12,000 B.t.u./Hr.
each. The air conditioners shall be mounted in the enclosure
outside wall. The requirements for this area are specified on
ECDS04-352-01.
3.2.1.5 MCC Area, Air is drawn into the MCC area from the
brine retention tank area. The air is drawn through an opening
into the MCC area enclosure by a fan and exhausted back to the
brine retention tank area. The fan and opening are located in
the wall of the enclosure. The fan has a capacity of 264 a.cof,mo
at 50*F. and 12 p.s.i.ao with a static pressure of 0.125 in w.co
The requirements for this area are specified on ECDS04-352-01.
3.2.1.6 Cyclone-Afterburner Area. Outside air enters this area
through two (2) external rain louvers located in the wall near
floor elevation. The louvers shall be manually adjustable with
bird screen and rough filters over each louver, The filters
and louvers shall have a maximum pressure drop of 0.12 in. w.co
with a total air flow of 3000 ac.f.m, at -100F. and 12 p.s.i.a.
The air shall be drawn upward through the area with 2000 aoc.f.mo
going to a plenum located just below the enclosure roof, and
1000 a.c.f.m, going to the afterburner combustion air fan.
The plenum has two air inlet openings covered with bird screen.
The 2000 a.c.f.m. at 140*F. and 12 p.s.i.a. flowing to the plenum
is exhausted through a duct to the same Government filter
and fan used for the barrier ventilation. See 3.1.3.
The Ventilation Design Flow Diagram is specified on ECDS04-152-02o
The ventilation and ductwork for this area is specified on
ECDS04-352-01.
3.2.2 Maintainability. All items shall be designed for a
minimum of maintenance. Items needing periodic maintenance or
replacement shall be readily accessible and easily removed or
replaced.
3.2.3 Enviromental Conditions, All equipment shall operate,
function or be capable of operating or withstanding prolonged
shutdown when installed in a facility at a nominal 5000 foot
altitude elevation with atmospheric pressure at 12 p.s~i.a.
and having an ambient temperaure range of -100F. to +1100F.
Components located within the Deactivation Furnace Barrier shall
be capable of withstanding temperature of 300F. during periods
of furnace operation without damage or subsequent effect on
operating requirements and characteristics,
--7--
3.3 Design and Construction.
3.3.1 Materials, Processes and Parts. Commercially available parts
shall be used where practicable.
3.3.2 Workmanship. All items shall be free from defects, damage,
dirt, sharp edges or burrs, or other signs of poor workmanship.
All equipment shall be built in accordance with the best engineer-
ing practices.
3.3.3 Identification and Marking. All buttons, levers, switches,
shall be labeled, and their operating positions and extremes
shall be labeled. Any maintenance features shall be labeled and
marked with any special instructions for required maintenance.
3.3.4 Construction and Installation. The vendor shall, upon
approval and acceptance of the components specified herein, accomp-
lish the construction, installation and assembly of the subord-
inate elements of the system. All work accomplished in this
phase shall be in accordance with SMACNA - "Low Velocity Duct
Construction Standards" fourth edition 1969, and all welding shall
be in accordance with ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code Section
VIII Division I, and all welders shall be qualified in accordance with
ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code Section IX. The vendor shall
install the equipment in accordance with all requirements
specified herein. No modification of the system shall be made
without prior approval of the Purchaser. All final fastenings,
supports, and weldments shall be made as specified herein.
Where provision is to be made for installation of any special
sensors, controls, or other such equipment, the mounting and
placement shall be in accordance with the requirements specified
herein and subject to approval by the Purchaser. All such
installations are to be made in such a manner as to allow
accessibility for ease of maintenance, adjustment or replacement.
Provisions for installation and servicing of pipes, valves,
or drainage traps and electrical cables and connections shall
be made using good engineering practices and workmanship.
3.3.5 Safety, Features of the installation, sub-systems, or
components shall conform to the "William-Steiger Occupational
Safety and Health Act of 1970".
-8-
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspection. Unless otherwise specified
in the contract or order, the vendor is responsible for the
performance of all inspection requirements as specified herein.
Except as otherwise specified, the vendor may utilize his own
facilitites or any commercial laboratory acceptable to the
Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right to perform any
of the inspections set forth in the specification where such
inspections are deemed necessary to assure supplies and
services conform to prescribed requirements.
4.2 Inspection and Test
4.2.1 Phase I shall consist of supplier certification of
materials, major and critical dimensions, finish and per-
formance as applicable to system, sub-system, or components
being supplied, and construction methods compatible with
overall function° Where applicable, test data will be provided
to show compliance with the requirements of 3.0. The inspections
and test data shall serve as basis for a certificate of conformance.
4.2.2 Phase II shall consist of an inspection of the installation
and assembly on-site of all sub-systems and components, to
insure proper fit and installation compatibility.
4.2.3 Phase III shall consist of an on-site initial system
functional check-out and balancing test to make necessary
adjustments for proper airflow, pressure drops, and control
settings. Components shall at this time demonstrate capability
of operation in accordance with the requirements of this specification.
Adjustability and capability of proper mechanical operation
will be checked at this time. Failure to operate satisfactorily
will be cause for repair or replacement by the vendor.
4.2.4 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the sub-systems or
components of the Heating and Ventilation System to meet any
of the requirements and tests of this specification shall be
considered cause for rejection. All equipment that does not
conform to this specification may be reworked by the vendor
utilizing rework procedures approved by the Purchaser with
no additional cost to Purchaser.
-9-
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 All exposed finished parts shall be safely crated and
properly protected for shipment.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the
supplier shall be appropriately identified on nameplates, and
packing, crated and packaged in accordance with commercial
practice to ensure acceptance by common carrier for safe
transportation and shall be delivered F.O.Bo to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, Utah 84074
MARK FOR: Surface Combustion, BB#4
-10-
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
ELECTRIC MOTORS
FOR -
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-20
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
B. FRALEY . K SH
Surface Combustion Division Surface Combustion Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
HcH4 W. 4 Is'r.cz
C(ontract Project Officer
Rdsvood Arsenal
April 24, 1975
DATED
il oIIiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiii
DA358350 DA01 6085-1
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establihes the requirements for the design,
acceptance an4 delvery of electric drive motors, complete with mounting
feat* data plate, outline dIm= ional drawlug, keyed drive ahaft, and
operating and a+intsence bulletins described herein. The motors
will be used 1In various places throughout the deactivation furnace system.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
201 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in
effect on the date of invitation for bids or request for proposal form
a part of this specification to the extent specified herein.
Other Publications.
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Act, 1970.
Supplemental instructions to MIL-D-1000 dated February 18, 1975.
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of
this specification as specified harein. Unless otherwise indicated, the
issue in effect on the date of invitation for bid, or request for proposal
shall apply.
Standards,
NEC National Electric Code
NEMA National Electrical Manufacturer's Association
NMTBA National Machine Tool Builder's Association
IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
3
3. 0 RsEg MMTs
3.1 General. The motor shall be "Mill and Chemical" or equal. It
shall be furnished with totally enclosed fan-cooled construction for
480 volt, 3 phase, 60 Hertz power utilization using a NEMA T frame.
3.2 Characteristics.
3.2.1 Performance. The motor shall be capable of operating at the
nominalýspeedaud horsepower presented in Section 10.1 with a 1. 15 service
factor. The motor shall be capable of performing at an ambient pressure
of 12.0 pounds per square inch absolute (p.s.i.a.) and an ambient tempera-
ture varying from 500 to 110° F. The insulation shall be at least NEMA
Class P quality.
3.2.2 Paint&o, The motor shall be painted in accordance with the manu-
facturer' 5 standard procedures.
303 Desiun and Construction. The motor shall be fabricated from cast
iron housings reflecting best industry standards, .with all construction
components equal to or better than the requirement of the service descrip-
tion specified herein.
3.3.1 Identification and MarkUng. The motor shall be identified with a
stainless steel plate attached to the motor frame in a prominent place
containing all ratings, model and serial numbers.
3.3.2 S . This specification requires total compliance with all
0SHAI, fede-rl state and local codes, laws, .and ordinances, as well
as the National Electric Code.
3.3.2.1 Sound Level Limit. Equipment shall be designed to include noise
abatement provision(s), so that personnel working three (3) feet from the
outline of the equipment in any direction for eight (8) hours shall not
be exposed to noise levels greater than those specified by OSHA, except
that 85 dB(A) be the exposure limit. Testing shall be in accordance with
4.2,2.
3.4 Documentation.
3.4.1 Dra an and Data. The motor manufacturer shall furnish, as part
of ths specification, certified drawings and descriptive material as
follows:
a. General design, arrangement, and construction features of all
components furnished.
b. Sise, weight and material specifications for all major com-
ponents and critical construction features.
ca Mounting details shall be shown clearly and all drawings shall
be prepared in accordance with 3.4.2.
4
3.402 Drgang Form. Drawings shall be In accordance with "Supplemental
Instructiona" to MIL-D-1000, dated 18 February 1975. Existing parts
drawings shall conform to Form 3, Categories E and F. New drawings shall
conform to Form 2, Categories B and F.
3.4.3 Manuals. Six (6) copies each of motor operation and maintenance
manuals shall be provided.
3.4.4 Manual Form. Manuals will be in manufacturer's standard format.
5
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified in the
contract, the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of all
inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise speci-
fied, the manufacturer may utilize his own facilities or any commercial
laboratory acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right
to perform any of the inspections set forth in the specification where
such inspections are deemed necessary to assure supplies and services
conform to prescribed requirements.
4.2 gality Conformance lnspections.
4.2.1 General. Components of the motor shall be inspected to verify
that the materials of construction, physical dimensions and workman-
ship conform to the requirements as specified herein.
The manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of
required inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed
by the Purchaser's inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector shall
not relieve the manufacturer from compliance with the requirements as
specified herein.
Upon delivery, verification of inspection of the equipment shall be
conducted at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delivery, and
acceptance shall be based upon compliance to the requirements as specified
herein,
4.2.2 Sound Instruments, Measurement. The instrumentation, sound measure-
ments Ad dat reporting shall conform to the National Machine Tool
Builder's Association Publication, NMTB Noise Measurement Techniques
(Junae 1970) or IEEE Publication No. 85 Test Procedure for Airborne
Noises Measurements on Rotating Electric Machinery.
The sound level recorded shall conform to the requirements specified in
3o3o2.1.
The manufacturer need not test supplied equipment if a certification of
testing on similar equipment is supplied.
4.2.3 Acceptance/Rection. Failure of the motor to meet any of the
requirements and tests of this specification shall be considered cause
for rejection. All equipment that does not conform to this specification
may be reworked by the manufacturer utilizing rework procedures approved
by the Purchaser with no additional cost to Purchaser.
6
5.o0 PWARATI0N FOR DELIVrR,
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the
motor manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in proper opera-
ting condition with no refurbishing needed before installation or use.
All exposed finished parts shall be safely crated and properly protected
for shipment as noted above. Preservatives shall be used to the extent
necessary, but shall be noted, with removal instructions included. In-
structions for unavoidable preparation for service shall accompany
the shipment in a protected place, but readily accessible before crating
and installation preparations are begun.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the motor manu-
facturer shall be appropriately crated and packaged in accordance with
commercial practice to ensure acceptance by common carrier for safe trans-
portation and shall be delivered F.O.B. to the address furnished by
the Purchaser.
7
10. 0 APPENDIX
10.1 Motor List.
Motor Speed Motor REating
(ROvOlutions par Minute) (Horspoer
1200 1/4" 1/2, 1, 1 1/2, 2, 3, 5, 7 1/2, 15
1800 •1/4, 1/2, 3/4, 1, 1 1/2, 2, 3, 5, 7 1/2,
190 15, 20, 25, 40
3600 10, 15
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
ELECTRIC MOTOR
FOR
INDUCED DRAFT FAN
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-44
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
B. R. FRALEY VJ. K. SI
Surface Combustion Division Surface Combustion Division
Surface Comb tion Divvisl,,ý
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
RICHARD W. MISIEWICZ
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
April 25, 1975
DATED
DA358356 DA01 6070-1
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for the designo
acceptance and delivery of an electric drive motor, complete with mou>,•ng
feet, data plate, outline dimensional drawing, keyed drive shaft, and
operating and maintenance bulletins described herein. This motor Will
be used to drive an induced draft fan for a deactivation furnace syst,•o
2
2.0 AP,,LICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in
effect on the date of invitation for bids or request for proposal form
a part of this specification to the extent specified herein.
Other Publications,
0SHA Occupational Safety and Health Act
Supplemented instructions to MIL-D-1000, dated 18 February, 1975.
2.2 Non-Government Documents, The following documents form a part of
this specification as specified herein. Unless otherwise indicated, the
issue in effect on the date of invitation for bid, or request for proposal
shall apply.
Standards.
NEC National Electric Code
NEMA Natinal Electrical Manufacturer's Association
NMTBA National Machine Tool Builder's Association
SEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
3
3.0 REQU!ZR•IMNS
3.1 General. The two-speed motor shall be "Mill and Chemical" or
equal. It shall be furnished with totally enclosed fan-cooled con-
struction for 480 volt, 3 phaseo 60 Hertz power utiliation using a
NEMA T frame.
3.2 Characteristics.
3.2.1 Performance. The motor shall be capable of operating at both
1800 and 900 RPM and delivering 200 h.p. at the higher speed with
a 1.15 service factor. The motor shall be capable of performing at
an ambient pressure of 12.0 pounds per square inch absolute (p.s.i.ao)
and an ambient temperature varying from 50° to 1100 F. The insulation
shall be at least NEMU Class "F" quality.
3.2.2 Painting. The motor shall be painted in accordance with the manu-
facturer's standard procedures.
3.3 Densin and Construction. The motor shall be fabricated from cast
iron housings reflecting best industry standards, with all construction
components equal to or better than the requirement of the service
description specified herein.
3.3.1 Identification and MarkLng. The motor shall be identified with
a stainless steel plate attached to the motor frame in a prominent
place containing all ratings, model and serial numbers and Part Num-
ber "ECDS04-44".
3.3.2 S . This specification requires total compliance with all
O.S.H.Ao# fideralg state and local codes, laws, and ordinances, as well
as the National Electric Code.
3.3.2.1 Sound Level Limit. Equipment shall be designed to include noise
abatement provision(s), so that personnel working three feet from the
outline of the equipment in any direction for eight hours shall not be
exposed to noise levels greater than those specified by O.S.H.A., except
that 85 dBA be the exposure limit. Testing shall be in accordance with
4.2.2.
4
3.4 Documentation.
3.4.1 Drawini[k and Data. The motor manufacturer shall furnish, as
part of this specification, certified drawings and descriptive material
as follows:
as General design, arrangement, and construction features of all
components furnished.
b. Size, weight and material specifications for all major com-
ponents and critcal construction features.
c. Mounting details shall be shown clearly and all drawings shall
be prepared in accordance with 3,4.2.
3.4.2 Drýn Form. Drawings shall be in accordance with "Supplemental
Instructions" to MIL-D-1000, dated 18 February 1975. Existing parts
drawings shall'-confora to Form 3, Categories E and F. New drawings shall
conform to Form 2, Categories E and F.
3.4.3 Manuals. Six (§) copies each of motor operation and maintenance
manuala shall be piovided.
304.4 Manual Form. Manuals will be in manufacturer's standard format.
5
400 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified in the
contract, the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of all
inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise speci-
fied, the manufacturer may utilize his own facilities or any commercial
laboratory acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right
to perform any of the Inspections set forth in the specification where
such inspections are deemed necessary to assure supplies and services
conform to prescribed requirements.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections.
4.2.1 General. Components of the motor shall be inspected to verify
that the materials of construction, physical dimensions and workman-
ship conform to the requirements as specified herein.
The manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of
required inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed
by the Purchaser's inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector shall
not relieve the manufacturer from compliance with the requirements as
specified herein.
Upon delivery, verification of inspection of the equipment shall be
conducted at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delivery,
and acceptance shall be based upon compliance to the requirements as
specified herein.
4.2.2 Sound Instruments$ Measurement. The instrumentation, sound
measurements and data reporting shall conform to the National Machine
Tool Builders Association Publication, NMTB Noise Measurement Techniques
(June, 1970) or IEEE Publication No. 85*Test Procedure for Airborne
Noises Measurements on Rotating Electric Machinery.
The sound level recorded shall conform to the requirements specified in
3.3.2,1,
The manufacturer need not test supplied equipment if a certification of
testing on similar equipment is supplied.
.4.2.3 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the motor to meet any of the
requirements and tests of this specification shall be considered cause
for rejection. All equipment that does not conform to. this specification
may be reworked by the manufacturer utilizing rework procedures approved
by the Purchaser with no additional cost to Purchaser.
6
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the
motor manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in proper opera-
ting condition with no refurbishing needed before installation or use.
All exposed finished parts shall be safely crated and properly protected
for shipment as noted above. Preservatives shall be used to the extent
necessary, but shall be noted, with removal instructions included. In-
structions for unavoidable preparation for servive shall accompany
the shipment in a protected place, but readily accessible before crating
and installation preparations are begun.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the motor manu-
facturer shall be appropriately crated and packaged in accordance with
commercial practice to ensure acceptance by common carrier for safe trans-
portation and shall be delivered F.O.B. to the fan manufacturer whose
address will be furnished by the Purchaser.
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
QUENCH
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE SYSTEM
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDSO4-22-A
REVISED BY: CONCURRENCE:
11 WILLIS A. A. KEEL
Surface Division Surface Division
I//
FRANKLIN G. RINKER
Surface Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
4ICHD MISIEWC
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
Dated: April 24, 1975
Revised Date: March 28, 1977
DA358385 DA0160731
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for the design,
fabrication, testing, acceptance and delivery of one (1) quench complete
with supports and other accessories, described herein.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in effect
on the date of invitation for bid, or request for proposal, form a part
of this specification to the extent specified herein.
Supplemental Instructions to MIL-D-1000, dated 18 February 1975.
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of this
specification, to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise indicated,
the issue in effect on the date of invitation to bid, or request for proposal
shall apply.
Specifications:
ASME American Society of Mechanical Engineers
Standards:
Huntington Alloy Product Standards, Division of the International Nickel Company.
3
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. The quench specified herein shall be Inconel 625, having a
flanged and flat top head, conical bottom head and (2) nozzles. The quench
shall be supported by the venturi. Internal supports, baffles, nozzles
and other parts in contact with the internal atmosphere shall be of Inconel
625. Internal pipes and fittings shall be Inconel 625 or Hasteloy C276.
External reinforcing and mounting support brackets shall be stainless steel
304.
3.2 Characteristics.
3.2.1 Performance. The quench shall be capable of containing chemical solutions
having a specific gravity of 1.16 at pressures to 14.9 pounds per square inch
gauge (p.s.i.g.) and 44.0 inches water gauge (w.g.) vacuum, at temperatures
from 40* F. to 1600 F. without leaking. The quench shall be tested in accord-
ance with 4.2.2.
3.3 Design and Construction. The quench shall be designed and constructed
to comply with established industry standards and ASME Boiler and Pressure
Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1 which shall govern in all cases, except
that where conflict is apparent, the contents of this specification shall
govern. (Quench need not be stamped.)
3.3.1 Quench Shell. All clips, supports, and brackets that are welded to
the quench shell shall be of the same quality of material as the part of the
quench shell to which they are attached, unless otherwise specified herein.
Plate layouts shall be so arranged that openings, brackets or other attach-
ments will not be welded to a plate joint. Exceptions to the above are
required in writing prior to approval. Unless otherwise specified herein,
plate joint areas affected shall be X-rayed to prove soundness afterwards
to meet this specification.
3.3.2 Flanges. Fabricated steel flanges shall be used for manhole and in-spection openings. Bolt holes in fabricated flanges shall be drilled or
punched. Burning of holes shall not be permitted.
3.3.2.1 Welding. All welders shall be tested in accordance with ASME Section
IX and the requirements contained in this specification. Attachments
inside or outside shall be seal-welded, in addition to strength welds, with
a minimum of 1/8" throat. All longitudinal and circumferential butt-joints
shall be double-welded. (Single welded butt-joints may be made with a backing
strip only where double-welded joints cannot be made.) All corrosion resistance
material welds shall conform to Inconel specifications as to preparation for
welding, weld procedure, and inspection per Huntington Alloy Product Standards,
Division of International Nickel Company.
4
3.3.3 Identification Marking. The manufacturer shall furnish and attach
to the outside of the shell of the quench, a permanent, flush-mounted
stainless steel nameplate showing the "CAMDS Specification Number ECDS04-22".
3.3.4 Workmanship. The inside and outside of the quench, including
brackets, shall be cleaned of weld spatter, slag, flux deposits, burrs and
splinters, loose mill scale, and all other foreign matter. All sharp
corners or edges shall be broken to prevent harm to persons coming into
contact with the unit.
5
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified in the con-
tract, the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of all inspection
requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise specified the manu-
facturer may utilize his own facilities or any commercial laboratory acceptable
to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right to perform any of the
inspections set forth in the specification where such inspections are deemed
necessary to assure supplies and services conform to prescribed requirements.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections
4.2.1 General. Components of the quench shall be inspected to verify that
the materials Of construction, physical dimensions and workmanship conform to
the requirements as specified herein.
The manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of required
inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed by the Purchaser's
inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector shall not relieve the manu-
facturer from compliance with the requirements as specified herein.
Upon delivery, verification of inspection of the equipment shall be conducted
at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delivery, and acceptance shall
be based upon compliance to the requirements as specified herein.
4.2.2 Pneumatic Tests. Quench shall be pneumatically tested at 22.35 p.s.i.g.in accordance with ASME, Section VIII, Division 1, Paragraph UG-100. Durationof the leak test shall be aminimum of four (4) hours.
Notes:
1. All openings shall be equipped with leak-tight gaskets
(using blind flanges except at air entry).
2. Quench shall be isolated from pressure or vacuum source
during test holding period.
3. All defects disclosed as a result of this testing shall
be remedied.
4. Tests must be repeated in case of failure or repair.
5. All repairs shall be made with new materials and no caulking
of screwed joints, holes or cracks will be acceptable.
4.2.3 Material Tests. Manufacturer will certify that corrosion resistant
materials used in the fabrication conform to the requirements of 3.1.
4.2.4 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the quench to meet any of the require-
ments and tests of this specification shall be considered cause for rejection.
All equipment that does not conform to this specification may be reworked by
manufacturer utilizing rework procedures approved by the Purchaser with no
additional cost to Purchaser.
4.2.5 Dye Penetrant. All welds shall be tested with dye penetrant.
6
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the quench
manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in proper operating con-
dition with no refurbishing needed before installation or use. The quench
shall be as fully assembled as feasible for shipment. All parts shall be
carefully matchmarked for reassembly. All exposed finished parts shall be
safely crated and properly protected for shipment as noted above. Preser-
vatives shall be used to the extent necessary, but shall be noted, with
removal instructions included.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the quench manufacturer
shall be appropriately packaged in accordance with commercial practice to
insure acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation and shall be
delivered F.O.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, UT 84074
MARK FOR: Surface Division BB#4
7
6.0 NOTES
6.1 The following characteristics are provided for informational pur-
poses on the quench described herein.
a. Unit loading of support on floor (reference) 750 lbs./in.2
b. The quench should be capable of cooling 5200 standard cubic feet
per minute (s.c.f.m.) of gases from 16000 F, to 3000 F.
6.2 The quench shell shall be of Inconel 625 (reference paragraph 3.1)
welded construction of new commercial quality and strength.
6.3 The margins of this specification are marked with a vertical line
to indicate where changes (additions, modifications, corrections, deletions)
from the previous issue were made. This was done as a convenience only and
the Government assumes no liability whatsoever for any inaccuracies in these
notations. Bidders and contractors are cautioned to evaluate the requirements
of this document based on the entire content irrespective of the marginal
notation and relationship to the last previous issue.
8
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
SCRUBBER TOWER
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE SYSTEM
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-23
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
Surface Combustion Division Surface Combustion Division
VFRAKL IN KR
Surface C Vbuostion vision
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
RICHARD MISIEWICZ
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
March 27, 1975
DATED
DD
DUPLICATE
Ij•6 D • APR 1 4 P.M.
DA358361 DAO1 6075-1
1. 0 SCOPE
1. 1 This specification establishes the requirements for the design, fabri-
cation, paint, testing, acceptance and delivery of one (1) scrubber tower
complete with supports and other accessories, described herein.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in effect
on the date of invitation. for bid, or request for proposal, form a part of this
specification to the extent specified herein.
Drawings:
ECDS04-353-01 Scrubber Tower Assembly
ECDS04-353-02 Subassembly
ECDS04-353-03 Details
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of
this specification, to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise indicated,
the issue in effect on the date of invitation to bid, or request for proposal
shall apply.
Specifications:
ASME American Society of Mechanical Engineers
Standards:
Hastelloy Standards, Stellite Division, Cabot Corporation
Huntington Alloy Products Standards Division of the International Nickel
Company
3
3.3.2.1 Welding. All welders shall be tested in accordance with ASME
Section IX and the requirements contained in this specification. Attach-
ments inside or outside shall be seal welded, in addition to strength welds,
with a minimum of 1/8" throat. All longitudinal and circumferential butt-
joints shall be double-welded. (Single welded butt-joints may be made with
a backing strip only where double-welded joints cannot be made.) All
corrosion resistant material welds shall conform to Hastelloy specifications
as to preparation for welding, weld procedure, and inspection, Hastelloy
Standard., Stellite Division Cabot Corporation and Huntington Alloy Products,
Standards, Division of the International Nickel Company.
Any welded attachment on the inside or outside of vessel shall be seal welded
on all joints with a weld having a throat dimension of 1/8" minimum. Seal
welds shall be additional to strength welds.
3.3.2.2 Painting. The vendor shall prepare the tower so that fabrication
painting will be in accordance with the following:
a. Protect all machined surfaces during painting.
b. Painting shall be done in clean, dry, well-ventilated spaces.
The air temperature shall be between 600 F and 900 F. or in accordance with
the paint manufacturer's instructions. Materials shall be thoroughly mixed,
and there shall be no settling or separation of ingredients during painting.
Unless otherwise specified, coatings may be applied by any method that will
ensure the application of a smooth, uniform, continuous film, free from dried
overspray, runs, sags, blisters, orange peel, or other imperfection. Freshly
painted material shall not be exposed to conditions that will harm the paint.
c. All fabrications to receive 1 shop prime coat (Toledo Paint Co.
#29447, or approved equal, rust inhibiting tan primer). Then a finish
coat of Code 11 Aluminum-Rust-Oleum #1210, or approved equal.
d. Prior to application, all mill scale, oil, foreign substances and
weld slag must be removed.
e. Filing, sanding, or other dressing operations shall not be done
on a part or assembly after it has been finish painted. Unless otherwise
specified, welding, soldering, or brazing shall not be permitted on an
assembly after it has been finish painted.
3. 3. 3 Identification Marking. All nozzles or attaching interfaces shall be
securely tagged or otherwise permanently numbered in accordance with the
nozzle schedule shown on drawing ECDS04-353-03, sheet #1 of 3.
5
3.0 REQR NTS
3.1 General. The tower specified herein shall be of composite construction
as shown on drawing ECDS04-353-01, carbon steel, and carbon steel 
lined
with Monel C-400, and steel lined with stellite anti-erosion material, 
having
a flanged and dished top head, and conical bottom head and having (41)
nozzles as shown on drawing ECDS04-353-02 sheet. The tower shall be
supported by a skirt. Itshall have internal supports, baffles, and nozzles
(any pait i'n contact with the internal atmosphere) which are of materials
in composite construction as shown on drawing ECDS04-353-03, sheets 1,
2 and 3.
3.2 Characteristics.
3.2.1 Performance. The tower shall be capable for containing chemical
solutions having a specific. gravity of 1.16 at. pressures to 14.9 pounds per
square inch gauge (p.s.i~g.) and 40.0 inches water gauge (w.g.) vacuum,
at temperatures from 400 F. to 160 0 F. without leaking when tested irn
accordance with Paragraph 4.2.1.
3.3 Design and Construction. The tower in this specification shall be
designed and constructed to comply with established industry standards
and ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1 which
shall govern in all cases, except that where conflict is apparent, the con-
tents of this specification shall, govern. (Tower need not be stamped.)
3.3.1 Tower Shell. All clips, support, brackets, etc. that are welded to
the tower! shell shall be of the same quality of material as the part of the
tower shell to which they are attached, unless otherwise specified herein.
Platc layouts shall be so arranged that openings, brackets or other attach-
ments will not be welded to a plate joint. Exceptions to the above are
required in writing prior, to approval. Unless otherwise specified herein,
plate joint areas affected shall be X-rayed to prove soundness afterwards
to meet this specification,. .
3.3.2 Flanges. Fabricated steel flanges shall be used for manhole
openings. Bolt holes in fabricated flanges shall be drilled or punched.
Burning of holes shall not be permitted.
4
3.3.2.1 Welding. All welders shall be tested in accordance with ASME
Section IX and the requirements contained in this specification. Attach-
ments inside or outside shall be seal welded, in addition to strength welds,
with a minimum of 1/8" throat. All longitudinal and circumferential butt-
joints shall be double-welded. (Single welded butt-joints may be made with
a backing strip only where double-welded joints cannot be made.) All
corrosion resistant material welds shall conform to Hastelloy specifications
as to preparation for welding, weld procedure, and inspection, Hastelloy
Standard,, Stellite Division Cabot Corporation and Huntington Alloy Products,
Standards, Division of the International Nickel Company.
Any welded attachment on the inside or outside of vessel shall be seal welded
on all joints with a weld having a throat dimension of 1/8" minimum. Seal
welds shall be additional to strength welds.
3.3.2.2 Painting. The vendor shall prepare the tower so that fabrication
painting will be in accordance with the following:
I-
a. Protect all machined surfaces during painting.
b. Painting shall be done in clean, dry, well-ventilated spaces.
The air temperature shall be between 600 F and 900 F. or in accordance with
the paint manufacturer's instructions. Materials shall be thoroughly mixed,
and there shall be no settling or separation of ingredients during painting.
Unless otherwise specified, coatings may be applied by any method that will
ensure the application of a smooth, uniform, continuous film, free from dried
overspray, runs, sags, blisters, orange peel, or other imperfection. Freshly
painted material shall not be exposed to conditions that will harm the paint.
c. All fabrications to receive 1 shop prime coat (Toledo Paint Co.
#29447, or approved equal, rust inhibiting tan primer). Then a finish
coat of Code 11 Aluminum-Rust-Oleum #1210, or approved equal.
d. Prior to application, all mill scale, oil, foreign substances and
weld slag must be removed.
e. Filing, sanding, or other dressing operations shall not be done
on a part or assembly after it has been finish painted. Unless otherwise
specified, welding, soldering, or brazing shall not be permitted on an
assembly after it has been finish painted.
3.3.3 Identification Marking. All nozzles or attaching interfaces shall be
securely tagged or otherwise permanently numbered in accordance with the
nozzle schedule shown on drawing ECDS04-353-03, sheet #1 of 3.
5
3.3.4 Workmanship. The inside and outside of the tower, including
brackets, shall be cleaned of weld spatter, slag, flux deposits, burrs and
splinters, loose mill scale, and all other foreign matter. All sharp
corners or edges shall be broken to prevent harm to persons coming into
contact with the unit.
6
3.3.4 Workmanshbo. The inside and outside of the tower, including
brackets,. shall be cleaned of weld spatter, slag, flux deposits, burrs and
splinters, loose mill scale, and all other foreign matter. All sharp
corners or edges shall be broken to prevent harm to persons coming into
contact with the unit.
(6
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified, in the
contract, the vendor is responsible for the performance of all inspection
requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise specified the
vendor may utilize his own facilities or any commercial laboratory
acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right to perform
any of the inspections set forth in the specification where such inspections
are deemed necessary to assure supplies and services conform to prescribed
requirements..
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections.
4; 2.1 Tests.
a. Tower shall be pneumatically tested at 1 1/2 times the maximum
allowable working pressure in accordance with ASME, Section VIII,
Division 1, Paragraph UG-100. Duration of the leak test shall be a
minimum of four (4) hours.
Notes:
1. All openings shall be equipped with leak tight gaskets
(using blind flanges except at air entry).
2. Tower shall be isolated from pressure or vacuum source
during test holding period.
3. All defects disclosed as a result of this testing shall be
remedied.
4. Tests must be repeated in case of failure or repair.
5. Purchaser reserves right of inspection and rejection in
event of any failure.
6. All repairs shall be made with new materials and no
caulking of screwed joints, holes or cracks will be acceptable.
b. Vendor will certify that corrosion resistant materials used in the
fabrication conform to the requirements of 3.0.
7
PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the tower
ufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in proper operating condition
naefurbishing needed before installation or use. The tower shall be
lly assembled as feasible for shipment. All parts shall be carefully
hmarked for reassembly. All exposed finished parts shall be safely
ed and properly protected for shipment as noted above. Preservatives
1 be used to the extent necessary, but shall be noted, with removal
uctions included.
ss otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the tower vendor
I be appropriately packaged in accordance with commercial practice
sure acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation and shall
elivered F.O.B. to:
Transportation Offices
Tooele Army Depot
Tooele, UT 84674
MARK FOR: AMXTE-AEO, Project T-172 BB 4
OTES
he following characteristics are provided for informational purposes
e tower described herein.
a.Unit loading of support on floor (reference) 750 lbs. /in.
2 ,
b. Volume of gas tower can accommodate (reference) 6700 s.c.f.m.
he tower'shell shall be of carbon steel (reference paragraph 3.1)
d construction, of new commercial quality and strength.
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
SCRUBBER TOWER
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE SYSTEM
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDSO4-23-A
REVISED BY: CONCURRENCE:
.~-, '$./*
W. WILLIS A. A. KEEL
Surface Division Surface Division
',FRANKLIN G. RNIdl~
Surface Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
4 1 ~itISM ICZ ......
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
DATED: March 271, 1975
REYISED DATE: March 28, 1977
DA358362 DA01 8075-2
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for the design,
fabrication, paint, testing, acceptance and delivery of one (1) scrubber
tower complete with supports and other accessories, described herein.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in
effect on the date of invitation for bid, or request for proposal, form
a part of this specification to the extent specified herein.
Drawings:
ECDS04-353-01 Scrubber Tower T-652 Assembly (3 sheets)
ECDS04-353-03 Scrubber Tower T-652 Details (4 sheets)
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of
this specification, to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise
indicated, the issue in effect on the date of invitation to bid, or
request for proposal shall apply.
Specifications:
ASME American Society of Mechanical Engineers
Standards:
Hastelloy Standards, Stellite Division, Cabot Corporation
Huntington Alloy Products Standards, Division of the International Nickel
Company
3
3. 0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. The tower specified herein shall be of composite con-
struction as shown on drawing ECDS04-353-01, carbon steel, and carbon
steel lined with Monel C-400, and steel lined with stellite anti-erosion
material, having a flanged and dished top head, and conical bottom head
and having (41) nozzles as shown on drawing ECDS04-353-03. The tower
shall be supported by a skirt, It shall have internal supports, baffles,
and nozzles (any part in contact with the internal atmosphere) which
are of materials in composite construction as shown on drawing ECDS04-353-03.
3.2 Characteristics.
3.2.1 Performance. The tower shall be capable of containing chemical
solutions having a specifie gravity of 1.16 at pressures to 14.9 pounds
per square inch gauge (p.s.i.g.) and 40.0 inches water gauge (w.g.)
vacuum, at temperatures from 400 F. to 1600 F. without leaking when
tested in accordance with Paragraph 4.2.1.
3.3 Design and Construction. The tower in this specification shall
be designed and constructed to comply with established industry standards
and ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1 which
shall govern in all cases, except that where conflict is apparent, the
contents of this specification shall govern. (Tower need not be stamped.)
3.3.1 Tower Shell. All clips, support, brackets, etc. that are welded
to the tower shell shall be of the same quality of material as the part
of the tower shell to which they are attached, unless otherwise specified
herein. Plate layouts shall be so arranged that openings, brackets or
other attachments will not be welded to a plate joint. Exceptions to
the above are required in writing prior to approval. Unless otherwise
specified herein, plate joint areas affected shall be X-rayed to prove
soundness afterwards to meet this specification.
3.3.2 Flanges. Fabricated steel flanges shall be used for manhole
openings. Bolt holes in fabricated flanges shall be drilled or punched.
Burning of holes shall not be permitted.
3.3.2.1 Welding. All welders shall be tested in accordance with ASME
Section IX and the requirements contained in this specification. Attach-
ments inside or outside shall be seal welded, in addition to strength
welds, with a minimum of 1/8" throat. All longitudinal and circumferential
butt-joints shall be double-welded. (Single welded butt-joints may be
made with a backing strip only where double-welded joints cannot be
made.) All corrosion resistant material welds shall conform to Hastelloy
specifications as to preparation for welding, weld procedure, and inspection,
Hastelloy Standard, Stellite Division Cabot Corporation and Huntington
Alloy Products, Standards, Division of the International Nickel Company.
4
Any welded attachment on the inside or outside of vessel shall be seal
welded on all joints with a weld having a throat dimension of 1/8"
minimum. Seal welds shall be additional to strength welds.
3.3.2.2 Painting. The vendor shall prepare the tower so that fabrica-
tion painting will be in accordance with the following:
a. Protect all machined surfaces during painting.
b. Painting shall be done in clean, dry, well-ventilated spaces.
The air temperature shall be between 600 F. and 900 F. or in accordance
with the paint manufacturer's instructions. Materials shall be thoroughly
mixed, and there shall be no settling or separation of ingredients during
painting. Unless otherwise specified, coatings may be applied by any
method that will ensure the application of a smooth, uniform, continuous
film, free from dried overspray, runs, sags, blisters, orange peel, or
other imperfection. Freshly painted material shall not be exposed to
conditions that will harm the paint.
c. All fabrications to receive 1 shop prime coat (Toledo Paint
Co. #29447, or approved equal, rust inhibiting tan primer).
Then a finish coat of Code 11 Aluminum-Rust-Oleum #1210, or
approved equal.
d. Prior to application, all mill scale, oil, foreign substances
%nd weld slag must be removed.
e. Filing, sanding, or other dressing operations shall not be
done on a part or assembly after it has been finish painted.
Unless otherwise specified, welding, soldering, or brazing
shall not be permitted on an assembly after it has been finish
painted.
3.3.3 Identification Marking. All nozzles or attaching interfaces shall
be securely tagged or otherwise permanently numbered in accordance with
the nozzle schedule shown on drawing ECDS04-353-03.
3.3.4 Workmanship. The inside and outside of the tower, including
brackets, shall be cleaned of weld spatter, slag, flux deposits, burrs
and splinters, loose mill scale, and all other foreign matter. All
sharp corners or edges shall be broken to prevent harm to persons
coming into contact with the unit.
5
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified, in
the contract, the vendor is responsible for the performance of all
inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise
specified the vendor may utilize his own facilities or any commercial
laboratory acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the
right to perform any of the inspections set forth in the specification
where such inspections are deemed necessary to assure supplies and
services conform to prescribed requirements.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections.
4.2.1 Tests.
a. Tower shall be pneumatically tested at 1 1/2 times the
maximum allowable working pressure in accordance with ASME,
Section VIII, Division 1, Paragraph UG-100. Duration of
the leak test shall be a minimum of four (4) hours.
Notes:
1. All openings shall be equipped with leak tight gaskets
(using blind flanges except at air entry).
2. Tower shall be isolated from pressure or vacuum source
during test holding period.
3. All defects disclosed as a result of this testing shall
be remedied.
4. Tests must be repeated in case of failure or repair.
5. Purchaser reserves right of inspection and rejection in
event of any failure.
6. All repairs shall be made with new materials and no
caulking of screwed joints, holes or cracks will be
acceptable.
b. Vendor will certify that corrosion resistant materials used
in the fabrication conform to the requirements of 3.0.
6
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the
tower manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in proper operating
condition with no refurbishing needed before installation or use. The
tower shall be as fully assembled as feasible for shipment. All parts
shall be carefully matchmarked for reassembly. All exposed finished
parts shall be safely crated and properly protected for shipment as
noted above. Preservatives shall be used to the extent necessary, but
shall be noted, with removal instructions included.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the tower vendor
shall be appropriately packaged in accordance with commercial practice
to insure acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation and
shall be delivered F.O.B. to:
Transportation Offices
Tooele Army Depot
Tooele, UT 84074
MARK FOR: AMXTE-AEO, Project T-172 BB#7
7
6.0 NOTES
6.1 The following characteristics are provided for informational
purposes on the tower described herein.
2a. Unit loading of support on floor (reference) 750 lbs./in.
b. Volume of gas tower can accommodate (reference) 6700 s.c.f.m.
6.2 The tower shell shall be of carbon steel (reference paragraph 3.1)
welded construction, of new commercial quality and strength.
6.3 The margins of this specification are marked with a vertical line
to indicate where changes (additions, modifications, corrections, deletions)
from the previous issue were made. This was done as a convenience only
and the Government assumes no liability whatsoever for any inaccuracies
in these notations. Bidders and contractors are cautioned to evaluate
the requirements of this document based on the entire content irrespective
of the marginal notation and relationship to the last previous issue.
8
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
CAUSTIC TANK
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS-04-24
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
WILLIS E. WILLIS J.K. SHAH
Surface Combustion Division Surface Combustion ,Division
FRANKLIN G. RINKER
Surface Combustion Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
RICHARD W. MISIEWICZ
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
DATED
DA358364 DA01 60771
1. 0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for the design,
fabrication, paint, testing, acceptance and delivery of a caustic
tank complete with supports and accessories to be used in the Deactivation
Furnace.
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in effect
on the date of invitation for bid, or request for proposal, form a part
of this specification to the extent specified herein.
DRAWINGS:
ECDS04-353-06
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of this
specification to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise indicated,
the issue in effect on the date of invitation to bid, or request for
proposal shall apply.
SPECIFICATIONS:
ASME American Society of Mechanical Engineers
ASTM American Society for Testing Materials
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
13.1 General. The caustic tank specified herein shall be constructed
of carbon steel as shown on drawing ECDS04-353-06. The tank shall be
supported on four legs; it shall have baffles and nozzles.
3.2 Characteristics.
3.2.1 Performance. The caustic tank shall be capable of containing
chemical solutions having a specific gravity of 1.2 at pressures to 14.9
pounds per square inch gauge (p.s.i.g.), at a temperature of 1650 F.
without leaking when tested in accordance with Paragraph 4.2.2.
3.3. Design and Construction. The caustic tank in this specification shall
be designed and constructed to comply with established industry standards
and ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1
which shall govern in all cases, except that where conflict is apparent,
the contents of this specification shall govern. (Tank need not be
stamped.)
3.3.1 Tank Shell. All clips, supports, brackets, etc. that are welded
to the interior of the shell shall be of the same quality of material as
the part of the tank shell to which they are attached, unless otherwise
specified herein. Plate layouts shall be so arranged that openings, brackets
or other attachments will not be welded to a plate joint. Exceptions to
the above are required in writing prior to approval. Unless otherwise
specified herein, plate joint areas affected shall be X-rayed to prove
soundness afterwards to meet this specification.
3.3.2 Flanges. Fabricated steel flanges shall be used for manhole
openings. Bolt holes in fabricated flanges shall be drilled or punched
and shall straddle normal centerlines. Burning of holes shall not be permitted.
3.3.2.1 Welding. All welders shall be tested in accordance with ASME
Section IX and the requirements contained in this specification. Attach-
ments inside or outside shall be seal welded, in addition to strength
welds, with a minimum of 1/8" throat. All longitudinal and circumferential
butt-joints shall be double-welded. (Single welded butt-joints may be
made with a backing strip only where double-welded joints cannot be made.)
3.3.2.2 Painting. The manufacturer shall prepare the caustic tank so that
fabrication painting will be in accordance with the following:
a. Protect all machined surfaces during painting.
b. Painting shall be done in clean, dry, well-ventilated spaces. The
air temperature shall be between 60*F. and 900 F. or in accordance with
the paint manufacturer's instructions. Materials shall be thoroughly mixed,
and there shall be no settling or separation of ingredients during painting.
Unless otherwise specified, coatings may be applied by any method that will
ensure the application of a smooth, uniform, continuous film, free from
dried overspray, runs, sags, blisters, orange peel, or other imperfection.
Freshly painted material shall not be exposed to conditions that will
harm the paint.
c. All fabrications to receive 1 shop prime coat (Toledo Paint Co.
#29447, or approved equal, rust inhibiting tan primer). Then a finish
coat of Code 11 Aluminum-Rust-Oleum #1210, or approved equal.
d. Prior to application, all mill scale, oil, foreign substances and
weld slag must be removed.
e. Filing, sanding, or other dressing operations shall not be done
on a part or assembly after it has been finish painted. Unless otherwise,
specified, welding, soldering, or brazing shall not be permitted on an
assembly after it has been finish painted..3.3.3 Identification Marking. All nozzles or attaching interfaces shall
be securely tagged or otherwise permanently numbered in accordance with
the nozzle schedule shown on drawing ECDS04-353-06.
3.3.4 Workmanship. The inside and outside of the caustic tank,
including brackets, shall be cleaned of weld spatter, slag, flux deposits,
burrs and splinters, loose mill scale, and all other foreign matter.
All sharp corners or edges shall be broken to prevent harm to persons
coming into contact with the unit.
0
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified, in
,the contract, the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of
all inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise
specified the manufacturer may utilize his own facilities or any commercial
laboratory acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right
to perform any of the inspections set forth in the specification where
such inspections are deemed necessary to assure supplies and services
conform-to prescribed requirements.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections. /
4.2.1 General. Components of the caustic tank shall be inspected to
verify that the materials, constructionp physical dimensions and workman-
ship Conform to the requirements as specified herein.
The manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of
required inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed 4y the
Purchaser's inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector shall not
relieve the manufacturer from compliance with the requirements as-specified
herein.
Upon delivery, verification of inspection of the equipment shall be
conducted at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delivery, and
acceptance shall be based upon compliance to the requirements as specified
herein.
4.2.2 Tests. Caustic tank shall be pneumatically tested at 1 1/2 times
the maximum allowable working pressure in accordance with ASME, Section VIII,
Division 1, Paragraph UG-100. Duration of the leak test shall be a minimum
of four (4) hours.
Notes:
1. All openings shall be equipped with'leak tight gaskets
(using blind flanges except at air entry.)
2. Caustic tank shall be isolated from pressure or vacuum source
during test holding period.
3. All defects disclosed as a result of this testing shall he remedied.
4. Tests must be repeated in case of failure or repair.
5. Purchaser reserves right of inspection and rejection in event of
any failure.
6. All repairs shall be made with new materials and no caulking
of screwed joints, holes or cracks will be acceptable.
4.2.3 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the caustic tank to meet any
of the requirements and tests of this specification shall be considered cause
for rejection. All equipment that does not conform to this specification
may be reworked by the manufacturer utilizing rework procedures approved
by the Purchaser with no additional cost to Purchaser.
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
.5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the
caustic tank manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in proper
operating condition with no refurbishing needed before installation or
use. The caustic tank shall be as fully assembled as feasible for
shipment. All parts shall be carefully matchmarked for reassembly. All
exposed finished parts shall be safely crated and properly protected
for shipment as noted above. Preservatives shall be used to the extent
necessary, but shall be noted, with removal instructions included.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the caustic tank
manufacturer shall be appropriately packaged in accordance with commercial
practice to insure acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation
and shall be delivered F.O.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, Utah 84074
Mark for Surface Combustion BB#4.
0
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
RETENTION TANK
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS-04-25
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
WILLIS E. WILLIS J. K. SHAH
Surface Combustion Division Surface CombustionDivision
FRANKLIN G. RINKER
Surface Combustion Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
RICHARD W. MiSIEWICZ
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal*
DA358
3 6 9 DA0 6082-1
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for the
design, fabrication, paint, testing, acceptance and delivery of a
retention tank complete with supports and accessories to be used
in the Deactivation Furnace.
|I
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in effect
on the date of invitation for bid, or request for proposal, formsa part
of this specification to the extent specified herein.
DRAWINGS:
ECDS04-353-05
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of
this specification to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise in-
dicated, the issue in effect on the date of invitation to bid, or request
for proposal shall apply.
SPECIFICATIONS:
ASME American Society of Mechanical Engineers
ASTM American Society for Testing Materials
1o
3.0o REQUEREM S
3.1 General. The retention tank specified herein shall be constructedof carbon steel as shown on drawing ECDS04-353-05. The tank shall besupported on four legs; it shall have baffles, nozzles, and a steam coil.
3.2 Characteristics.
3.2.1 Performance. The retention tank shall be capable for containing
chemical so0lu -tions ha i g a s e i i gr v t of1J& % at p s u es o 6 * 6
pounds per square inch gauge (p1s. 10 and fWJ inches water
gauge (w.g.) Vacuum, at temperatures from a 0 without leaking
when tested in accordance with Paragraph 4MP . 0
3.3 an C nst uct on. Th retention specifshall be-designed and constructed to comply with established industrystandards and ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section-VIII, Division 1which shall govern in all cases, except that where conflict is apparent, thecontents-of this specification shall govern. (Tank need not be stamped.)'/
3.3.1 Tank Shell. All clips, supports, brackets, etc. that are welded tothe interior of the tank shell shall be of the same quality of materialas the part of the tank shell to which they are attached, unless otherwisespecified herein. Plate layouts shall be so arranged that openings,brackets or other attachements will not be welded to a plate joint. Ex-ceptions to the above are required in writing prior to approval. Unlessotherwise specified herein, plate Joint areas affected shall be X-rayedto prove soundness afterwards to meet this specification.
3.3.2 Flanges. Fabricated steel flanges shall be used for manhole openings.Bolt holes in fabricated flanges shall be drilled or punched.*i nn
of holes shall not be permitted. 
.4h4 4UN
3.3.2.1 Weldin&. All welders shall be tested in accordance with ASMESection IX and the requirements cotditained in this specification. Attach-
ments inside or outside shall be seal welded, in addition to strength welds,with a minimum of 1/8" throat. All longitudinal and circumferential butt-joints shall be double-welded. (Single welded butt-joints may be madewith a backing strip only where double-welded joint s cannot be made.)3.3.2.2 PaiLnting. The 1endd 'shall prepare the retention tank so that
fabrication painting will e in accordance with the following:
a. Protect all machined surfaces during painting.
b. Painting shall be done in clean, dry, well-ventilated spaces.
The air temperature shall be between 60*F. and 90*F. or in accordance
with the paint manufacturer's instructions. Materials shall be thoroughly
mixed, and there shall be no settling or separation of ingredients during
painting. Unless otherwise specified, coatings may be applied by any
method that will ensure the application of a smooth, uniform, continuous
film, free from dried overspray, runs, sags, blisters, orange peel, or other
imperfection. Freshly painted material shall not be exposed to conditions
that will harm the paint.
c. All fabrications to receive I shop prime coat (Toledo Paint Co.
#29447, or approved equal, rust inhibiting tan-primer). Then a finish
coat of.Code 11 Aluminum-Rust-Oleum #1210, or approved equal.
d. Prior to application, all mill scale, oil, foreign substances and
weld slag must be removed.
e. Filing, sanding, or other dressing operations shall not be done
on a part or assembly after it has been finish painted. Unless otherwise'
specified, welding, soldering, or brazing shall not be permitted on an
assembly after it has been finish painted.
*3.3.3 Identification Marking. All nozzles or attaching interfaces shall
be securely tagged or otherwise permanently numbered in accordance with
the nozzle schedule shown on drawing ECDS04-353-05.
3.3.4 Workmanship. The inside and outside of the retention tank, including
brackets, shall be cleaned of weld spatter, slag, flux deposits, burrs
and splinters, loose mill scale, and all other foreign matter. All sharp
corners or edges shall be broken to prevent harm to persons coming into
contact with the unit.
0•
4.0 UALITY ASSURANCE*PR SIONS
i .1 Res onsbilit ns cto Unless otherwise specified, in thek. i contract, the is responsible for the performance of all inspection_urements as specifled herein. Except as otherwise specified the)j may-utilize his own facilities or any commercial laboratoryacceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right to performany of the inspections set forth in the specification where such inspectionsare deemed necessary to assure supplies and services conform to prescribedrequirements.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections.
4.2.1 General. Components of the retention tank shall be inspected toverify that the materials, construction, physical dimensions and workman-ship conform to the requirements as specified herein.
The manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance ofrequired inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed by thePurchaser's inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector shall not
relieve the manufacturer from compliance with the requirements as specified
herein.:
Upon delivery, verification of inspcetion of the equipment shall be
conducted at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delivery, and accept-
ance shall be based upon compliance to the requirements as specified
herein.
4 .2 .2 Tests. . e
Retention tank shall be pneumatically tested at 1 1/2 times the maximumallowable working pressure in accordance with ASME, Section VIII, Division 1,Paragraph UG-100. Duration of the leak test shall be a minimum of four (4)hours.
Notes:.
1. All openings shall be equipped with leak tight gaskets (using blindflanges except at air entry).
2. Retention tank shall be isolated from pressure or vacuum sourceduring test holding period.
3. All defects disclosed as a result of this testing shall be remedied.
II
4. Tests must be repeated in case of failure or repair.
5. Purchaser reserves right of inspection and rejection in
event of any failure.
6. All repairs shall be made with new materials and no caulking of
screwed joints, holes or cracks will be acceptable.
4.2.3 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the retention tank to meet any of
the requirements and tests of this specification shall be considered cause
for rejection. All equipment that does not conform to this specification
may be reworked by the manufacturer utilizing rework procedures approved
by the Purchaser with no additional cost to Purchaser.
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General . Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by theretention tank manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in properoperating condition with no refurbishing needed before Installation oruse. The retention tank shall be as fully assembled as feasible forshipment. All parts shall be carefully matchmarked for reassembly. Allexposed finished parts shall be safely crated and properly protectedfor shipment as noted above. Preservatives shall be used to the extent
necessary, but shall be noted, with removal instructions included.U l s o e i s t a a
'A Unless otherwise stated above, all materdalnshipped by the retention tank
i(ý shall be appropriately packaged in accordance with commercial patc
to insure acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation and shallbe delivered F.O.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, Utah 84074
Mark for Surface Combustion B
*
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYTEM
FIELD ELECTRICAL AND INSTRUMENTATION WIRING
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-51
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
WILLIAM M. GROOMS C. E. ROBINSON
Surface Combustion Division Surface Combustion Division
GARY *.•0W / RANLIN G. ORR
Surfat eCombustion Division Surface Combust- on Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
RICHARD W. MIS IEWICZ
Contract Project Of fi er
Edgewood Arsenal
November 4, 1975
DATED
RECEIVED ON JOBSITE
DBY ...--------..-..
DA358370 DA016083-1 -
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification covers the requirements for installation of
Purchaser furnished electrical equipment and for the supply and
installation of all field wiring materials for the Deactivation
Furnace System.
Purchaser furnished electrical equipment including instrumentation
components will be received and stored by Purchaser at a nearby
off-site warehouse. Purchaser will provide space in the warehouse
for storage of materials. Purchaser will provide a field office,
communications equipment, personnel wash and lavatory facilities,
personnel safety equipment and a site tools storage yard for use by
the Field Electrical Wiring Contractor.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the exact
issue shown form a part of this specification to the extent
specified herein. In the event 'of conflict between the documents
referenced herein and the contents of this specification, the
contents of this specification shall be considered a superseding
requirement.
Specifications:
ECDS04-11 Motor Control Centers for Deactivation Furnace
ECDS04-12 Process Control Instrumentation
ECDS04-15 Grounding and Lightning Protection
ECDS04-52 Special Motor Starting Equipment for Deactivation
Furnace
Drawings:
ECDS04-150-01 Air Pollution Control P&I
ECDS04-151-01 Process Water Design Flow Diagram
ECDS04-152-01 Heating and Cooling Design Flow Diagram
ECDS04-152-02 Ventilating Design Flow Diagram
ECDS04-153-01 Compressed Air P&I
ECDS04-155-01 Fuel Oil and Combustion Air P&I
ECDS04-156-01 Lubrication System P&I
ECDS04-160-OI Process Flow Schematic
ECDS04-250-01 General Arrangment
ECDS04-550-01 Electrical Site Plan
ECDS04-550-02 Single Line Diagram
ECDS04-550-03 Symbol List and Fixture Schedule
ECDS04-550-04 Panel and Transformer Schedule
ECDS04-550-05 Conduit and Cable Schedule (4 sheets)
ECDS04-551-01 Grounding and Lightning Protection
ECDS04-552-01 Lighting Plan Enclosure (2 sheets)
ECDS04-553-01 Power and Distribution Plan
ECDS04-554-01 HVAC and Miscellaneous Wiring
ECDS04-555-O Process Control Elementary Diagrams (9 sheets)
ECDS04-555-02 Process Control Interconnection and Wiring (5 sheets)
ECDS04-555-03 Junction Box and Enclosure Schedule2 sheets)
3
ECDS04-556-01 Layout and Schedule MCC No. 1
ECDS04-557-Ol Wiring Diagram MCC No. 1 (4 sheets)
ECDS04-560-01 Material Handling Block Diagram
ECDS04-560-02 Material Handling Wiring (2 sheets)
ECDS04-561-01 Pollution Control Block Diagram
ECDS04-561-02 Pollution Control Wiring (2 sheets)
ECDS04-563-OI Instrumentation Elementary Schematic (7 sheets)
ECDS04-563-02 Instrumentation Cabinet Assembly (2 sheets)
ECDSO4-563-03 Instrumentation Cabinet Wiring (4 sheets)
ECDS04-563-04 Instrumentation Actual Wiring (2 sheets)
ECDS04-564-01 Alarm and Control Panel Elementary Schematic (4 sheets)
ECDS04-564-02 Alarm and Control Panel Cabinet Assembly
ECDS04-564-03 Alarm and Control Panel Cabinet Detail (4 sheets)
ECDS04-564-04 Alarm and Control Panel Cabinet Actual Wiring (3 sheets)
ECDSO4-564-05 Alarm and Control Panel Interconnection Wiring Diagram
(3 sheets)
ECDS04-566-O0 Burner Control Elementary Wiring Diagram (2 sheets)
ECDS04-566-02 Burner Cabinet Assembly
ECDS04-566-03 Burner Cabinet Actual Wiring Diagram
ECDS04-566-04 Burner Interconnecting Wiring Diagram
ECDS04-570-OI Instrumentation Block Diagram
ECDS04-570-02 Instrumentation Wiring (2 sheets)
Other Publications:
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Act
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a
part of this specification to the extent specified herein. Unless
otherwise indicated, the issue in effect on the date of invitation
for bids or request for proposal shall apply.
Standards:
NEC National Electrical Code
NEMA National Electrical Manufacturer's Association
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. Electrical field wiring shall be in accordance
with this specification and the approved drawings, diagrams,
schematics, distribution plans, and the requirements specified
herein,
3.2 Characteristics0  The field wiring shall serve to inter-
connect all power distribution equipment, to interconnect and dis-
tribute power to all service items, to interconnect all functional
controls, to interconnect all alarm and combustion control devices,
to interconnect all process instrumentation components and de-
vices, to interconnect lighting controls and fixtures and to inter-
connect all Purchaser furnished electrical components, devices
and machines. Purchaser furnished equipment is specified in Section 10.3.
3.2.2 Performance Characteristics. The electrical field wiring
shall have the performance characteristics specified herein.
3.2.2.1 Power Distribution. Materials and services shall be
furnished by the Field Electrical Wiring Contractor to perform the
following:
3.2.2.1.1 Install Motor Control Centers (MCC's) furnished by Pur-
chaser per ECDSO5-11 and ECDS05-51. MCC's shall be
installed on 4 inch channel sections furnished by the
Field Electrical Wiring Contractor.
3.2.2.1.2 Branch wire from MCC's to all electrical motors. Motors
which are integral part of machines or process equipment
items will be set by Purchaser0
3.2.2.1.3 Furnish and install motor push button stations, field
mounted selector switches and capacitors.
3.2.2.1.4 Receive, unload and install both normal and emergency
power Distribution Panel Boards.
3.2.2.1.5 Branch wire from Distribution Panel Boards to MCC's and
5
3.2.2.2 Services. Materials and services shall be furniahed to
perform the following:
3.2.2.2.1 Furnish and install brine piping heat tracing complete
with UL approved thermostatic control.
3.2.2.2.2 Furnish and install welding outlets and convenience outlets.
3.2.2.2°3 Furnish and install outlets in the Effluent Gas Monitoring
Station (EGMS)o
3.2.2.2.4 Furnish and install heating and ventilating power distribu-
tion and controls° Damper operators and thermostatic
controls will be furnished by Purchaser.
3.2.2.3 Control Wiring, Materials and services shall be furnished
to perform the following:
3.2.2.3.1 Receive and install the PLC Cabinet.
3.2.2.3.2 Branch Wire from the PLC Cabinet to the MCC's and the
Alarm and Combustion Control Panel.
3.2.2.3.3 Branch wire from the PLC Cabinet to the double tipping
valve.
3.2.2.3.4 Branch wire from the PLC Cabinet to the furnace including
drive, tipping valve, and lubrication electrical components.
3.2.2.3.5 Branch wire from the PLC Cabinet to the discharge conveyor.
3.2.2,3.6 Branch wire from the PLC Cabinet to the scrap conveyor.
3.2.2.3.7 Branch wire from the PLC Cabinet to Pollution Control process
equipment electrical components.
3.2.2.4 Alarm and Combustion Control. Materials and services shall
be furnished to perform the following:
3.2o2o4.1 Receive and install the Furnace Combustion Control Panel.
3.2.2.4.2 Branch wire from the Furnace Combustion Control Panel to
all combustion control components mounted on the furnace
and afterburner.
3.2.2.4.3. Branch wire from the Furnace Combustion Control Panel
and components to the Alarm and Control Panel is the
Control Module (CMO)o
6
3.2.2.4.4 Receive and install the Alarm and Control Panel in
the CMOo
3.2.2.4.5 Branch wire from the alarm components and panel mounted
alarm contacts to the Alarm and Control Panel in the
CMOo
3.2.2.4.6 Receive and install ignition controls to include trans-
formers, flame sensors, pressure switches and spark
plugs.
3.2.2.5 Process Instrumentation. Materials and services shall be
provided to perform the following:
3.2.2.5.1 Receive and install the Instrumentation Panel in the CMO.
3.2.2.5.2 Branch wire from Process Instrumentation Primary Sensing
Elements to the Instrumentation Panel in the CMO.
3.2.2.5.3 Install and wire Primary Sensing Elements. Thermocouples
shall be wired without intermediate cold junctions.
3.2.2.5.4 Install Final Control Valve and Damper Operators.
3.2.2.5.5 Branch wire from the Instrumentation Panel in the CMO to
the Final Control Valve and Damper Operators.
3.2.2.5.6 Branch wire from alarm contacts to the Instrumentation
Panel.
3.2.2.6 Lighting, Materials and services shall be furnished to
perform the following:
3.2.2.6.1 Furnish and install lighting fixtures.
3.2.2.6.2 Furnish and install lighting panels.
3.2.2.6.3 Furnish and install lighting transformers.
- •3,•2.v2 i Furn1sh91vand ' instal1l lighting-feeders ....
3.2.2.6.5 Branch wire from MCC to transformer lighting panels.
3.2.2.6.6 Branch wire from Lighting Panels to all lighting fixtures.
7
3.3 Design and Construction
3.3.1 Materials, All work shall be installed in accordance with
the National Electric Code (N.ECo). All wiring shall be installed
in accordance with this specification unless specifically stated
otherwise herein. All materials shall be of new manufacture. Alum-
inum materials shall not be used.
3.3.1.1 Wiring Specifications. The specifications for external
wiring are based on ambient temperatures of less than 600 C.
(1400 F.) in the vicinity of conduit runs and devices. For ambient
temperatures higher than this in the furnace barrier, the wiring materials
shall be suitable for ambient temperatures of 120* C. (2500 F.)
3.3.1.1.1 All wiring located on the furnace and adjacent to the furnace
shall be Type XHHW, THHN, or ACA Rockbestos table EMA with
a 600 volt rating and minimum temperature rating of 900 C.
unless otherwise specified by Purchaser, Any wires
which are run in conduit which is buried in concrete
shall have a minimum temperature rating of 750 C. and
shall be moisture resistant type THW, THWN, or XHHW.
All wire shall be copper stranded with No. 14, the
smallest size used, with the exception of multiconductor
cables, when required, which may be No. 18. Current
carrying capacities and color coding for wire shall be
in accordance with 3.3.3 of this specification.
3.3.1.1.2 Mnimum conduit requirement shall be rigid hot dipped gal-
vanized.
3.3.1.1.3 Liquid-tight flexible conduit (Sealtite), or equal, and fittings
shall be used to complete the connection to all devices with a mini-
mum length of 12" and a maximum length of 36". For motors and
limit switches, a length sufficient shall be used to permit
the motor or limit switches to be moved to both limits of its
adjustment.
EXCEPTION TO USE OF FLEXIBLE CONDUIT: Rigid conduit may be used
• + • . to',complete• the-connection --to -control- cabinets',- panels,, junctioný- -
boxes, terminal boxes, and push button stations.
3.3.1.1.4 A minimum of 10 percent spare wires (not less than two (2)
wires) shall be provided in all conduits. Exception No. 1:
Spare wires are not required in conduits to individual devices
provided the conduit contains 6 wires or less and is less
than 15 feet long. Exception No. 2: Spares are not required
for wires larger than size AWGo No. 14 or for special wires
such as thermocouple wiring and shielded cable.
8
3.3.1.1.5 Underwriters approved solderless connectors shall be used to
terminate connections. Soldered type lugs are not acceptable.
Wires shall run continuously from one piece of apparatus to
another without any splices in conduit and/or raceway or con-
dulets and pull boxes. However, multiple connections may
be made at terminal blocks in various locations provided such
blocks are enclosed in terminal boxes with all terminals num-
bered to correspond to the wire numbers on wiring diagrams.
Devices supplied with pigtail leads must have leads terminated
within 6'' of device.
3.3.1.1.6 All wires shall be numbered at each termination with a high
temperature Brady Quick Label (or equivalent) to correspond
with wiring diagrams. Minimum length of label is 1 3/8"
3.3.1.1.7 All junction boxes shall be NEMA 12 oiltight construction and shall
have gasketed covers held on by screws and shall not have any
knockouts, All fittings shall have "0" rings, metal retainers,
and non-abrasive bushings0
3.3.1.1.8 Thermocouple extension lead wire for all couples may be combined
in the same conduit; however, they shall not be combined with
any wires carrying an alternating current0 Do not bundle or
lace thermocouple lead wire with power or control wires in any
enclosure or at terminal strips0 Conduit to be connected to
the thermocouple protection tube with Sealtite or equal.
Conduit shall be sealed0 Conduit shall be terminated with a
bushing to protect wire.
3.3.1.1.9 Wiring from all pilot flame electrodes and/or flame detectors
may be combined in the same conduit, but shall not be in
the same conduit with wires for any other circuits, Do not
-iundle or TUce these wires with power or control wires
in any enclosure or at terminal strips. Flame detectors shall
be mounted at any location of the upper half of a sphere.
3.3.1.1.10 Ignition transformers for spark ignited burners shall be located• ~~~~as close, as ,possible,. h sprkplugso• •If it is necessary ....•...
to mount the transformer more than 36" from the spark plug or
in the case of distributor type ignition system, ignition
wires shall be run in separate conduit and enclosures from
wires for any other circuits, and the conduit shall be terminated
:'w~thin"f12 of spark plug0  Ignition wires may be combined and
run in the same conduit.
All terminations of high voltage ignition wiring shall be
properly insulated and guarded.
9
3.3.1.1.11 Connections tc solenoid valves, temperature control valve motors,
and any other devices which are supplied with leads shall be
bolted connections with solderless lugs being used on the
wires. The connections shall be taped with Scotch electrical
tape No. 33 or equal. Liquidtight flexible conduit (Sealtite)
or equal and fittings as desaribed herein shall be used
to complete connection.
3.3.1.1.12 Unless otherwise specified herein, wires for control equip-
ment operating on 120 volts may be run in the same conduit
as power wires for motors, provided all are insulated for
maximum voltage of any conductor in the conduit.
3.3.1.1.13 Connections made within the furnace barrier shall be insulated
with a heat resistant insulating tape suitable for 1200 C.
(250@ F.)
3.3.1.2 Control Cabinet and Other Electrical Component Mounting
shall be as follows:
3.3.1.2.1 All electrical devices and conduit shall be located not closer
than a minimum of 6" from furnace side and bottom casing and
minimum of 12" from top casing. Special care must be taken
to keep conduit 24" from the charge or discharge doors or
openings, flues in the top of furnace, eductors for radiant
tubes, hot gas effluents, and any other openings in the furnace.
Conduit shall not be run in the vicinity of thermocouple openings,
sight ports, bulkheads, or in a manner that prevents the removal
of any mechanical or other items required for maintenance.
3.3.1.2.2 All Junction boxes shall be accessible.
3.3.1.2.3 Control cabinets mounted on furnaces or other structural members
(not freestanding) shall be mounted such that the centerline
of the disconnect switch is not more than 78" from floor and
the bottom of the cabinet is not less than 24" from floor.
All control cabinets and push button stations mounted on furnace
shall be a minimum of 6" from furnace side casing with a free
air space between enclosure and casing.
3.3.1.2.4 Any electrical device located in an area not in accordance with
this specification shall not be wired by the Field Electrical
Wiring Contractor without specific approval by Purchaser.
3.3.1.3 Electrical Hardware, All conduit, fittings, remote push button
stations, selector switch stations, welding receptacles, service outlets,
wire boxes, terminals, wire markers, connectors, tapes, fasteners,
shall be supplied by the Field Electrical Wiring Contractor as follows:
10
3.3.1.3.1 All conduit ahall be rigidý galvaaizsdo
3.3.1.3.2 All conduit bodies ihall be App!at; or Crouse Hinds (or
equal),
3.3.1.3.3 All conduit fittinge shall be I&B o equal))
3.3.1.3.4 All junction boxes shall be Appltta".v Type GRJS (for round
type) and Hoffman-JIC ML?" type with panel (for rectangular
type) (or equal).
3.3.1.3.5 All terminal blocks shall be Buchanan Type TC with dovetail basefor channel mountln& and painted marking afea (or equal).
3.3.1.3.6 All wire markers shall be high t.mpraturs Brady "Quick" label
(or approved equal), mininm langth 1 3/8".
3.3.1.3.7 All wire connectors ahall be T&B (or equal).
3.3.1.3.8 All electrical tape to be Scotch No. 33 (or equal), (Except
high temperature applications.)
3.3.1.3.9 All flexitle condiut shall be "Sealtite" or equal (not Greenfield
or BX cable).
3.3.1.3.10 High voltage ignition wires shall be Packard No. 440, (or equal).
3.3.1.3.11 All push buttne hall be Allen-B1rdley 800M, or equal.
3.3.1.3.12 All switches shall be Square D, Type HD, or equal.
3.3.1.3.13 All welding receptacles shall be Crouse Hinds, or equal.
3.3.1.3,14 All service outlets shall be Hubbell No. 5262, or equal,
3.3.1.4 Current Capacity ,f Wire. Current carrying capacity of wireshall be in accordanc with the requirements apecified in 10.1.
3.3.1.5 Maximum Fuse Sizes. Maximum fuse sizes for control trans-formers shall be in accordance with the requirements specified in 10.2.
3.3.2 Field Painting. Abraded or corroded spots on shop-paintedsurfaces shall be wire brushed and touched up with the same materialused for the shop coat. Factory color finished surfaces shall betouched up as necessary with the manufacturer's recomended touch-
up paint.
3.3.3 Identification and Markina, All conductors shall be color
coded as follows:
~11
3.3.3.1 Black - Line, load, and control circuits at line voltage AC or
D.C.
3.3.3.2 Red - AC control circuits.
3.3.3.3 Blue - DC control circuits.
3.3.3.4 Yellow - Interlock control circuits wired from an external
power source.
3.3.3.5 Green (with or without a yellow strip) - Equipment grounding
conductors.
3.3.3.6 White or gray-neutral - Grounded circuit conductor.
Exception No. 1: Internal wiring on individual devices purchased
completely wired.
Exception No. 2: Where multiconductor cable is used.
Exception No. 3: Conductors used to connect electronic precision,
static, or similar devices on panels.
All wires will be marked on both terminal ends.
3.3.4 Workmanship. All items shall be free from defects, damage,
dirt, sharp edges or burrs, or other signs of poor workmanship.
All systems shall be free from short circuits and grounds and
shall show an insulation resistance between phase conductor in
accordance with the requirements of the National Electrical Code
(N.E.C.).
Seal all conduit passing through shroud walls and ceiling.
Where conduit is exposed, install the conduit parallel with
or at right angles to structural members, walls, and lines
of the building.
Keep all conduits a minimum of 6 inches from the covering
on steam pipes.
Keep ends of conduits closed during construction.
Where conduits are installed in ventilated areas, all joints shall
be liquidtight and gastight.
3.3.5 Safety. The Field Electrical Wiring Contractor shall comply
with the latest Federal and State Occupational Safety and Health
Act (OSHA) requirements.
12
3.3.6 Human Performance/Human Engineering. Wiring will be installed
in a manner necessary to achieve simplicity, efficiency, reliability,
and safety of system operation and maintenance.
3.3.7 Standards of Manufacture, The wiring system and components
shall be in conformity with standard industry practices. Any
departure therefrom without prior written approval from the
Purchaser shall not be permitted.
3.3.8 As-Built Drawings. During progress of the work, maintain
an accurate record of the installation of the electrical system.
Note any changes or corrections.
Upon completion of the electrical installation, transfer all recorded
data to blueline prints of the original drawings.
13
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspection. Unless otherwise specified
in the contract or order, the Field Electrical Wiring Contractor
is responsible for the performance of all inspection requirements
as specified herein. Except as otherwise specified, the Field Elec-
trical Wiring Contractor may utilize his own facilities or any
commercial laboratory acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser
reserves the right to perform any of the inspections set forth in
the specification where such inspections are deemed necessary to
assure supplies and services conform to prescribed requirements.
4.2 Inspection and Test,
4.2.1 General. Components of the system shall be inspected to
verify that the materials of construction, physical dimensions,
and workmanship conform to the requirements specified.
The Field Electrical Wiring Contractor shall notify the Purchaser prior toperformance of required inspections in order that such inspections may bewitnessed by Purchaser's inspector, Approval by the Purchaser's inspector
shall not relieve the Field Electrical Wiring Contractor or manufacturer
from compliance to the specified requirements.
4.2.2 Phase I shall consist of Field Electrical Wiring certification
of materials, finish and performance as applicable to componentsbeing supplied and construction methods compatible with overall
function. Dimensional checks and certification of incorporation of
all features will be provided. The inspections as stated above
shall serve as basis for a certificate of conformance.
4.2.3 Phase II shall consist of an inspection of the installation
and assembly on-site of all sub-systems and components, to ensure
proper installation. This inspection to include:
4.2.3.1 All systems shall test free from short circuits and grounds,
shall be free from mechanical and electrical defects,
and shall show an insulation resistance between phase
conductors in accordance with the requirements of the N.E.C.
4.2.3.2 Wiring shall be inspected to ensure proper identification
and marking per 3.3.3.
4.2.3.3 Wiring shall be inspected to ensure wire continuity.
4.2.3.4 Wiring will be inspected to show proper neutral connections.
4.2.3.5 Lighting fixtures will be tested to show designed rating.
14
4.2.4 Clean-up, Upon completion of all intallation, lamping, and
testing, Field Electrical Wiring C=,tracto'r aha2l throughly inspect
all exposed portions of the elctrica1 !i ilation and completely
remove all exposed labels, soil, mtrtin~go and foreign material.
4.2.5 Acceptance/Rejectiono Failure of tht sub-systems or components
of the electrical wiring system to meen any of the requirements and
tests of this specification shall be considered cause for rejection.
All equipment that does not conform to this specification shall be
reworked by the Field Electrical Wiring Contractor utilizing rework
procedures approved by the Purchaser with no additional cost to Purchaser.
15
1000 APPENDIX
10.1 Wire and Fuse Selection Tables
Table No. 1 Current Carrying Capaci ty-fa Wire
Maximum ampacities based on not more than 3 conductors in conduit
or raceway.
See Note I and Note 4
External Wiring - Sea Note 2 Internal Wiring - See Note 3
Size Type THHN Type SR-ML MTW-900 C. SR-14L
AWG THHW- ACA SFF-2 THHN - ACA SFF-2
MCM TABLE EMA TABLE EMA
14 12 20 13 22
12 16 25 18 28
10 24 35 27 39
8 40 55 45 59
6 56 75 63 80
4 72 102 81 109
3 84 115 94 123
2 96 129 108 137
1 112 151 126 162
0 124 178 139 190
00 148 205 166 218
000 168 236 188 252
0000 188 276 211 294
250 216 298 243 318
300 240 339 270 361
350 260 374 293 400
500 325 445 365 475
Note 1: If more than 3 conductors in conduit or raceway, the ampacities
shall be reduced as follows:
Number of Conductor Percent of Values in Table No. 1
4 to 6 80
7 to 24 70
25 to 42 60
43 and Above 50
16
Note 2: Ampacities of wiring to external devices are based on wire
in a 50* C. (1220 F.) environment.
Note 3: Ampacities of wiring to external devices where the environ-
ment exceeds 600 C. (140* F.), will be specified on the drawings.
Note 4: For continuously operating motors, the ampacity of the
wiring to motors shall be limited to 80% of that in Table 1.
Exception: If wiring has been de-rated in accordance with table
in Note i, this additional de-rating is not required.
10.2 Wire and Fuse Selection Tables
Table No. 2 Maximum Fuse Sizes
Control Transformer
Maximum Fuse Sizes
Trans. Primary Secondary
KVA 460 V 230 V 115 V
.1 FRS 1/2 FRN 1 FRN 1
.25 FRS 1 FRN 2 1/2 FRN 2 1/2
.5 FRS 2 1/2 FRN 5 FRN 5
.75 FRS 3 1/2 FRN 7 1/2 FRN 7 1/2
1.0 FRS 5 FRN 10 FRN 10
1.5 FRS 7 1/2 FRN 15 FRN 15
2.0 FRS 10 FRN 20 FRN 20
3.0 FRS 15 FRN 30 FRN 30
5.0 FRS 25 FRN 50 FRN 50
10.3 Purchaser Furnished Items. Equipment and services furnished
by Purchaser:
10.3.1 All MCC'so
10.3.2 All motors.
10.3.3 All Control Panels prewired to terminal strips.
10.3.4 Cable Trays and Feeder Cables including terminations to
Power Distribution Panels only.
10.3.5 MCC Room Trench Ducts.
10.3.6 All underground conduit.
10.3.7 All Lightning Protection and Grounding Systems.
17
10.3.8 All thermocouple extension-wire,
10.3.9 All dampers, valves, motor operators, limit switches,
pressure switches, and ignition controls.
10.3.10 All process instrumentation primary sensing elements
and transmitters.
10.3.11 Cable trays between CMO and DFS Enclosure.
10.3.12 Power distribution panel boards.
18
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
FIELD ELECTRICAL AND INSTRUMENTATION WIRING
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDSO4-51-A
REVISED: CONCURRENCE:
W. WILLIS A. A. KEEL
Surface Division Surface Division
RANKLIN G. RI.ZER
Surface Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
Contract Project OfficerV
Edgewood Arsenal
DATED: November 4, 1975
REVISED DATE: March 28, 1977
DA358
3 7 1 DA016083-2
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification covers the requirements for installation of
Purchaser furnished electrical equipment and for the supply and installation
of all field wiring materials for the Deactivation Furnace System.
Purchaser furnished electrical equipment including instrumentation components
will be received and stored by Purchaser at a nearby off-site warehouse.
Purchaser will provide space in the warehouse for storage of materials. Pur-
chaser will provide a field office, communications equipment, personnel wash
and lavatory facilities, personnel safety equipment and a site tools storage
yard for use by the Field Electrical Wiring Contractor.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the exact issue
shown form a part of this specification to the extent specified herein.
In the event of conflict between the documents referenced herein and the
contents of this specification, the contents of this specification shall
be considered a superseding requirement.
Specifications:
ECDS04-11 Motor Control Centers for Deactivation Furnace
ECDS04-12 Process Control Instrumentation
ECDS04-15 Grounding and Lightning Protection
ECDSO4-52 Special Motor Starting Equipment for Deactivation
Furnace
Drawings:
ECDSO4-150-01 Air Pollution Control P&I
ECDSO4-151-01 Process Water Design Flow Diagram
ECDS04-152-01 Heating and Cooling Design Flow Diagram
ECDSO4-152-02 Ventilating Design Flow Diagram
ECDS04-153-01 Compressed Air P&I
ECDSO4-155-01 Fuel Oil and Combustion Air P&I
ECDSO4-156-01 Lubrication P&I
ECDSO4-160-01 Process Flow Schematic
ECDSO4-250"01 Equipment Layout Plan Assembly
ECDSO4-550-01 Electrical Site Plan
ECDSO4-550-02 Single Line Diagram
ECDS04-550-03 Symbol List and Fixture Schedule
ECDSO4-550-04 Panel and Transformer Schedule
ECDS04-550-05 Conduit and Cable Schedule (3 Sheets)..... CDS04-551.01 Grounding land Lightning .Protection. ..
ECDS04-552-01 Lighting Plan and Details (2 Sheets)
ECDSO4-553-01 Power and Distribution Plan
ECDSO4-554-01 HVAC and Miscellaneous Electrical
ECDSO4-555-01 Process Control Elementary Diagrams (11 Sheets)
ECDSO4-555-02 Process Control Interconnection and Wiring (7 Sheets)
ECDSO4-556-01 Layout and Schedule MCC
ECDS04-557-01 Intercon. Wiring Diagram MCC (5 Sheets)
ECDS04-560-01 Material Handling Block and Wiring Diagram
ECDS04-561-01 Pollution Control Block Diagram
ECDSO4-561-02 Pollution Control Wiring (4 Sheets)
3
ECDSO4-563-01 Instrumentation Elementary Schematic Wiring Diagram (7 Sheets)
ECDSO4-563-02 Instrumentation Cabinet Assembly (2 Sheets)
ECDSO4-563-03 Actual Wiring Diagram (3 Sheets)
ECDSO4-563-04 Instrument Interconnection Wiring Diagram
ECDSO4-564-O Alarm and Control Elementary Wiring Diagram (6 Sheets)
ECDSO4-564-02 Cabinet Assembly (2 Sheets)
ECDSO4-564-03 Cabinet Detail
ECDSO4-564-04 Cabinet Actual Wiring (4 Sheets)
ECDSO4-564-05 Push Button Schedule (2 Sheets)
ECDSO4-564-06 Interconnection Wiring
ECDSO4-565-01 Discharge Conveyor Busbar Wiring Diagram
ECDSO4-566-01 Burner Control Elementary Wiring Diagram (2 Sheets)
ECDSO4-566-02 Burner Cabinet Assembly
ECDSO4-566-03 Burner Cabinet Actual Wiring
ECDSO4-566-04 Cabinet Interconnecting Wiring Diagram
ECDSO4-570-O Instrumentation Block Diagram
ECDSO4-570-02 Instrumentation Wiring (3 Sheets)
Other Publications:
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Act
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of this
specification to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise indicated,
the issue in effect on the date of invitation for bids or request for proposal
shall apply.
Standards:
NEC National Electrical Code
-a -,,,,,,-N. . ational .Electrical. Manufacturer! s Association
4
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. Electrical field wiring shall be in accordance with this
specificatiop and the approved drawings, diagrams, schematics, distribution
plans, and the requirements specified herein.
3.2 Characteristics. The field wiring shall serve to interconnect all power
distribution equipment, to interconnect and distribute power to all service
items, to interconnect all functional controls, to interconnect all alarm and
combustion control devices, to interconnect all process instrumentation com-
ponents and devices, to interconnect lighting controls and fixtures and to
interconnect all Purchaser furnished electrical components, devices and
machines. Purchaser furnished equipment is specified in Section 10.3.
3.2.2 Performance Characteristics. The electircal field wiring shall have
the performance characteristics specified herein.
3.2.2.1 Power Distribution. Materials and services shall be furnished by
the Field Electrical Wiring Contractor to perform the following:
3.2.2.1.1 Install Motor Control Centers (MCC's) furnished by Purchaser
per ECDS04-11 and ECDS04-52. MCC's shall be installed on 4 inch
channel sections furnished by the Field Electrical Wiring
*Contractor.
3.2.2.1.2 Branch wire from MCC's to all electrical motors. Motors that
are integral part of machines or process equipment items will be
set by Purchaser.
3.2.2.1.3 Furnish and install motor push button stations, field mounted
selector switches and capacitors.
3.2.2.1.4 Receive, unload and install both normal and emergency power Dis-tribution •anel Boards. -
3.2.2.1.5 Branch wire from Distribution Panel Boards to MCC's and lighting
panels.
3.2.2.2 Services. Materials and services shall be furnished to perform the
following:
3.2.2.2.1 Furnish and install brine piping heat tracing complete with UL
approved thermostatic control.
3.2.2.2.2 Furnish and install welding outlets and convenience outlets.
3.2.2.2.3 Furnish and install outlets in the Effluent Gas Monitoring
Station (EGMS).
3.2.2.2.4 Furnish and install heating and ventilating power distribution
and controls. Damper operators and thermostatic controls willbe furnished by Purchaser.
5
3.2.2.3 Control Wiring. Materials and services shall be furnished to perform
the following:
3.2.2.3.1 Receive and install the PLC Cabinet.
3.2.2.3.2 Branch Wire from the PLC Cabinet to the MCC's and the Alarm and
Combustion Control Panels.
3.2.2.3.3 Branch wire from the PLC Cabinet to the double tipping valve.
3.2.2.3.4 Branch wire from the PLC Cabinet to the furnace including drive,
trickle valve, and lubrication electrical components.
3.2.2.3.5 Branch wire from the PLC Cabinet to the discharge conveyor.
3.2.2.3.6 Branch wire from the PLC Cabinet to the scrap conveyor.
3.2.2.3.7 Branch wire from the PLC Cabinet to Pollution Control process
equipment electrical components.
3.2.2.4 Alarm and Combustion Control. Materials and services shall be fur-
nished to perform the following:
3.2.2.4.1 Receive and install the Furnace Combustion Control Panel.
3.2.2.4.2 Branch wire from the Furnace Combustion Control Panel to all
combustion control components mounted on the furnace and after-
burner.
3.2.2.4.3 Branch wire from the Furnace Combustion Control Panel and com-
ponents to the Alarm and Control Panel in the Control Module
(CON).
.3.22.44 .Receive-and install'the'Alarm and Control Tanel the COI ...
3.2.2.4.5 Branch wire from the alarm components and panel mounted alarm
contacts to the Alarm and Control Panel in the CON.
3.2.2.4.6 Receive and install ignition controls to include transformers,
flame sensors, pressure switches and spark plugs.
3.2.2.5 Process Instrumentation. Materials and services shall be provided
to perform the following:
3.2.2.5.1 Receive and install the Instrumentation Panel in the CON.
3.2.2.5.2 Branch wire from Process Instrumentation Primary Sensing Elements
to the Instrumentation Panel in the CON.
6
3.2.2.5.3 Install and wire Primary Sensing Elements. Thermocouples shall
be wired without intermediate cold junctions.
3.2.2.5.4 Install Final Control Valve and Damper Operators.
3.2.2.5.5 Branch wire from the Instrumentation Panel in the CON to the
Final Control Valve and Damper Operators.
3.2.2.5.6 Branch wire from alarm contacts to the Instrumentation Panel.
3.2.2.6 Lighting. Materials and services shall be furnished to perform the
following:
3.2.2.6.1 Furnish and install lighting fixtures.
3.2.2.6.2 Furnish and install lighting panels.
3.2.2.6.3 Furnish and install lighting transformers.
3.2.2.6.4 Furnish and install lighting feeders.
3.2.2.6.5 Branch wire from MCC to transformer lighting panels.
3.2.2.6.6 Branch wire from Lighting Panels to all lighting fixtures.
3.3 Design and Construction
3.3.1 Materials. All work shall be installed in accordance with the
National Electric Code (N.E.C.). All wiring shall be installed in accord-
ance with this specification unless specifically stated otherwise herein. All
materials shall be of new manufacture. Aluminum materials shall not be used.
3.3.1.1 Wiring Specifications. The specifications for external wiring are
based on ambient temperatures of less than 600 C. (1400 F.) in the vicinity
of conduit runs and devices. For ambient temperatures higher than this in the
furnace barrier, the wiring materials shall be suitable for ambient temperatures
of 1200 C. (2500 F.).
3.3.1.1.1 All wiring located on the furnace and adjacent to the furnace shall
be Type XHHW, THHN, or ACA Rockbestos table EMA with a 600 volt
rating and a minimum temperature rating of 900 C. unless otherwise
specified by Purchaser. Any wires which are run in conduit which
is buried in concrete shall have a minimum temperature rating of
750 C. and shall be moisture resistant type THW, THWN, or XHHW.
All wire shall be copper stranded with No. 14, the smallest size
used, with the exception of multiconductor cables, when required,
which may be No. 18. Current carrying capacities and color
coding for wire shall be in accordance with 3.3.3 of this speci-
fication.
3.3.1.1.2 Minimum conduit requirement shall be rigid hot dipped galvanized.
3.3.1.1.3 Liquid-tight flexible conduit (Sealtite), or equal, and fittings
shall be used to complete the connection to all devices with a
minimum length of 12" and a maximum length of 36". For motors
and limit switches, a length sufficient shall be used to permit
the motor or limit switches to be moved to both limits of its
adjustment.
EXCEPTION TO USE OF FLEXIBLE CONDUIT: Rigid conduit may be used
to complete the connection to control cabinets, panels, junction
boxes, terminal boxes, and push button stations.
3.3.1.1.4 A minimum of 10 percent spare wires (not less than two (2) wires)
shall be provided "in all conduits. Exception No. 1: Spare wires
are not required in conduits to individual devices provided the
conduit contains 6 wires or less and is less than 15 feet long.
Exception No. 2: Spares are not required for wires larger than
size AWG. No. 14 or for special wires such as thermocouple wiring
and shielded cable.
8
3.3.1.1.5 Underwriters approved solderless connectors shall be used to
terminate connections. Soldered type lugs are not acceptable.
Wires shall run continuously from one piece of apparatus to another
without any splices in conduit and/or raceway or condulets and
pull boxes. However, multiple connections may be made at terminal
blocks in various locations provided such blocks are enclosed in
terminal boxes with all terminals numbered to correspond to the
wire numbers on wiring diagrams. Devices supplied with pigtail
leads must have leads terminated within 36" of device.
3.3.1.1.6 All wires shall be numbered at each termination with a high tem-
perature Brady Quick Label (or equivalent) to correspond with
wiring diagrams. Minimum length of label is 1 3/8".
3.3.1.1.7 All junction boxes shall be NEMA 12 oiltight construction and shall
have gasketed covers held on by screws and shall not have any
knockouts. All fittings shall have "0" rings, metal retainers,
and non-abrasive bushings.
3.3.1.1.8 Thermocouple extension lead wire for all couples may be combined
in the same conduit; however, they shall not be combined with
any wires carrying an alternating current. Do not bundle or lace
thermocouple lead wire with power or control wires in any en-
closure or at terminal strips. Conduit to be connected to the
thermocouple protection tube with Sealtite or equal. Conduit shall
be sealed. Conduit shall be terminated with a bushing to protect wire.
3.3.1.1.9 Wiring from all pilot flame electrodes and/or flame detectors
may be combined in the same conduit, but shall not be in the
same conduit with wires for any other circuits. Do not bundle
or lace these wires with power or control wires in any enclosure
or at terminal strips. Flame detectors shall be mounted at any
location of the upper half of a sphere.
3.3.1.1.10 Ignition transformers for spark ignited burners shall be located
as close as possible to the spark plugs. If it is necessary to
mount the transformer more than 36" from the spark plug, ignition
wires shall be run in separate conduit and enclosures from wires
for any other circuits, and the conduit shall be terminated
within 12" of spark plug. Ignition wires may be combined and
run in the same conduit.
All terminations of high voltage ignition wiring shall be
properly insulated and guarded.
9
3.3.1.1.11 Connections to solenoid valves, temperature control valve motors,
and any other devices which are supplied with leads shall be
bolted connections with solderless lugs being used on the wires.
The connections shall be taped with Scotch electrical tape No. 33
or equal. Liquidtight flexible conduit (Sealtite) or equal and
fittings as described herein shall be used to complete connection.
3.3.1.1.12 Unless otherwise specified herein, wires for control equipment
operating on 120 volts may be run in the same conduit as power
wires for motors, provided all are insulated for maximum voltage
of any conductor in the conduit.
3.3.1.1.13 Connections made within the furnace barrier shall be insulated with
a heat resistant insulating tape suitable for 1200 C. (2500 F.).
3.3.1.2 Control Cabinet and Other Electrical Component Mounting shall be
as follows:
3.3.1.2.1 All electrical devices and conduit shall be located not closer than
a minimum of 6" from furnace side and bottom casing and minimum of
12" from top casing. Special care must be taken to keep conduit
24" from the charge or discharge doors or openings, flues in the
top of furnace, eductors for radiant tubes, hot gas effluents, and
any other openings in the furnace. Conduit shall not be run in
the vicinity of thermocouple openings, sight ports, bulkheads,
or in a manner that prevents the removal of any mechanical or other
items required for maintenance.
3.3.1.2.2 All junction boxes shall be accessible.
3.3.1.2.3 Control cabinets mounted on furnaces or other structural members
(not freestanding) shall be mounted such that the centerline of
the disconnect switch is not more than 78" from floor and the
. .. bottom'of the'cabinet ids"not ledssthan 24" from floor. . All-'control"'
cabinets and push button stations mounted on furnace shall be a
minimum of 6" from furnace side casing with a free air space
between enclosure and casing.
3.3.1.2.4 Any electrical device located in an area not in accordance with
this specification shall not be wired by the Field Electrical
Wiring.Contractor without specific approval by Purchaser.
3.3.1.3 Electrical Hardware. All conduit, fittings, remote push button
stations, selector switch stations, welding receptacles, service outlets,
wire boxes, terminals, wire markers, connectors, tapes, fasteners, shall be
supplied by the Field Electrical Wiring Contractor as follows:
3.3.1.3.1 All conduit shall be rigid, galvanized.
10
3.3.1.3.2 All conduit bodies shall be Appleton or Crouse Hinds (or equal).
3.3.1.3.3 All conduit fittings shall be T&B (or equal).
3.3.1.3.4 All junction boxes shall be Appleton, Type GRJS (for round type)
and Hoffman-JIC "LP" type with panel (for rectangular type) (or
equal).
3.3.1.3.5 All terminal blocks shall be Buchanan Type TC with dovetail base
for channel mounting and painted marking area (or equal).
3.3.1.3.6 All wire markers shall be high temperature Brady "Quick" label
(or approved equal), minimum length 1 3/8".
3.3.1.3.7 All wire connectors shall be T&B (or qqual).
3.3.1.3.8 All electrical tape to be Scotch No. 33 (or equal). (Except high
temperature applications.)
3.3.1.3.9 All flexible conduit shall be "Sealtite" or equal (not Greenfield
or BX cable).
3.3.1.3.10 High voltage ignition wires shall be Packard No. 440, (or equal).
3.3.1.3.11 All push buttons shall be Allen-Bradley 800M, or equal.
3.3.1.3.12 All switches shall be Square D, Type HD, or equal.
3.3.1.3.13 All welding receptacles shall be Crouse Hinds, or equal.
3.3.1.3.14 All service outlets shall be Hubbell No. 5262, or equal.
3.3.1.4 Current Capacity of Wire. Current carrying capacity of wire shall
be in accordance -wititthe requiremeit&ipedified I .
3.3.1.5 Maximum Fuse Sizes. Maximum fuse sizes for control transformers
shall be in accordance with the requirements specified in 10.2.
3.3.2 Field Painting. Abraded or corroded spots on shop-painted surfaces
shall be wire brushed and touched up with the same material used for the
shop coat. Factory color finished surfaces shall be touched up as necessary
with the manufacturer's recommended touchup paint.
3.3.3 Identification and Marking. All conductors shall be color coded as
follows:
3.3.3.1 Black - Line, load, and control circuits at line voltage AC or DC.
11
3.3.3.2 Red - AC control circuits.
3.3.3.3 Blue - DC control circuits.
3.3.3.4 Yellow - Interlock control circuits wired from an external power
source.
3.3.3.5 Green (with or without a yellow strip) - Equipment grounding con-
ductors.
3.3.3.6 White or gray-neutral - Grounded circuit conductor.
Exception No. 1: Internal wiring on individual devices purchased completely
wired.
Exception No. 2: Where multiconductor cable is used.
Exception No. 3: Conductors used to connect electronic precision, static,
or similar devices on panels.
All wires will be marked on both terminal ends.
3.3.4 Workmanship. All items shall be free from defects, damage, dirt,
sharp edges or burrs, or other signs of poor workmanship.
All systems shall be free from short circuits and grounds and shall show an
insulation resistance between phase conductor in accordance with the re-
quirements of the National Electrical Code (N.E.C.).
All conduit that passes through barrier walls or ceiling shall be gastight.
Sealing of conduits shall be done by the following method or an equal alter-
nate: weld a conduit nipple in a steel plate sealed in the barrier wall,
attach an explosion proof sealing fitting on each end of nipple, and fill
-......... fittingsithsealing-cemenutafter, wiring is -complete.
Where conduit is exposed, install the conduit parallel with or at right
angles to structural members, walls, and lines of the building.
Keep all conduits a minimum of 6 inches from the covering on steam pipes.
Keep ends of conduits closed during construction.
Where conduits are installed in ventilated areas, all joints shall be liquid-
tight and gastight.
3.3.5 Safety. The Field Electrical Wiring Contractor shall comply with the
latest Federal and State Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) require-
ments.
12
3.3.6 Human Performance/Human Engineering. Wiring will be installed in a
manner necessary to achieve simplicity, efficiency, reliability, and safety
of system operation and maintenance.
3.3.7 Standards of Manufacture. The wiring system and components shall be
in conformity with standard industry practices. Any departure therefrom
without prior written approval from the Purchaser shall not be permitted.
3.3.8 As-Built Drawings. During progress of the work, maintain an accurate
record of the installation of the electrical system. Note any changes or
corrections.
Upon completion of the electrical installation, transfer all recorded data
to blueline prints of the original drawings.
13
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspection. Unless otherwise specified in the
contract 6r order, the Field Electrical Wiring Contractor is responsible
for the performance of all inspection requirements as specified herein.
Except as otherwise specified, the Field Electrical Wiring Contractor may
utilize his own facilities or any commercial laboratory acceptable to the
Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right to perform any of the in-
spections set forth in the specification where such inspections are deemed
necessary to assure supplies and servies conform to prescribed requirements.
4.2 Inspection and Test.
4.2.1 General. Components of the system shall be inspected to verify that
the materials of construction, physical dimensions, and workmanship conform
to the requirements specified.
The Field Electrical Wiring Contractor shall notify the Purchaser prior to
performance of required inspections in order that such inspections may be wit-
nessed by Purchaser's inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector shall
not relieve the Field Electrical Wiring Contractor or manufacturer from com-
pliance to the specified requirements.
4.2.2 Phase I shall consist of Field Electrical Wiring certification of
materials, finish and performance as applicable to components being supplied
and construction methods compatible with overall function. Dimensional checks
and certification of incorporation of all features will be provided. The
inspections as stated above shall serve as basis for a certificate of con-
formance.
4.2.3 Phase II shall consist of an inspection of the installation and assembly
on-site of all sub-systems and components, to ensure proper installation. This
inspection to include:
4.2.3.1 All systems shall test free from short circuits and grounds, shall be
free from mechanical and electrical defects, and shall show an insulation
resistance between phase conductors in accordance with the requirements of
the N.E.C.
4.2.3.2 Wiring shall be inspected to ensure proper identification and marking
per 3.3.3.
4.2.3.3 Wiring shall be inspected to ensure wire continuity.
4.2.3.4 Wiring will be inspected to show proper neutral connections.
4.2.3.5 Lighting fixtures will be tested to show designed rating.
14
4.2.4 Clean-up. Upon completion of all installation, lamping, and testing,
Field Electrical Wiring Contractor shall thoroughly inspect all exposed
portions of the electrical installation and completely remove all exposed
labels, soil, markings, and foreign material.
4.2.5 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the sub-systems or components of
the electrical wiring system to meet any of the requirements and tests of
this specification shall be considered cause for rejection. All equipment
that does not conform to this specification shall be reworked by the Field
Electrical Wiring Contractor utilizing rework procedures approved by the
Purchaser with no additional cost to Purchaser.
6.0 NOTES
6.1 The margins of this specification are marked with a vertical line to
indicate where changes (additions, modifications, corrections, deletions)
from the previous issue were made. This was done as a convenience only and
the Government assumes no liability whatsoever for any inaccuracies in these
notations. Bidders and contractors are cautioned to evaluate the requirements
of this document based on the entire content irrespective of the marginal
notation and relationship to the last previous issue.
15
10.1 APPENDIX
10.1 Wire and Fuse Selection Tables
Table No. I Current Carrying Capacity for Wire
Maximum ampacities based on not more than 3 conductors in conduit or raceway.
See Note 1 and Note 4
External Wiring - See Note 2 Internal Wiring - See Note 3
Size Type THHN MTW-900 C.
AWG THHW - ACA Type SR-ML THHN - ACA SR-ML
MCM TABLE EMA SFF-2 TABLE EMA SFF-2
14 12 20 13 22
12 16 25 18 28
10 24 35 27 39
8 40 55 45 59
6 56 75 63 80
4 72 102 81 109
3 84 115 94 123
2 96 129 108 137
1 112 151 126 162
0 124 178 139 190
00 148 205 166 218
000 168 236 188 252
0000 188 276 211 294
250 216 298 243 318
300 240 339 270 361
350 260 374 293 400
500 325 445 365 475
Note 1: If more than 3 conductors in conduit or raceway, the ampacities shall
be reduced as follows:
Number of Conductor Percent of Values in Table No. 1
4 to 6 80
7 to 24 70
25 to 42 60
43 and Above 50
16
Note 2: Ampacities of wiring to external devices are based on wire in a
500 C. (1220 F.) environment.
Note 3: Ampacities of wiring to external devices where the environment
exceeds 600 C. (1400 F.), will be specified, on the drawings.
Note 4: For continuously operating motors, the ampacity of the wiring to
motors shall be limited to 80% of that in Table 1. Exception: If wiring
has been de-rated in accordance with table in Note 1, this additional de-
rating is not required.
10.2 Wire and Fuse Selection Tables
Table No. 2 Maximum Fuse Sizes
Control Transformer
Maximum Fuse Sizes
Trans. Primary Secondary
KVA 460 V. 230 V. 115 V.
.1 FRS 1/2 FRN 1 FRN 1
25 FRS 1 FRN 2 1/2 FRN 2 1/2
:5 FRS 2 1/2 FRN 5 FRN 5
.75 FRS 3 1/2 FRN 7 1/2 FRN 7 1/2
1.0 FRS 5 FRN 10 FRN 10
1.5 FRS 7 1/2 FRN 15 FRN 15
2.0 FRS 10 FRN 20 FRN 20
3.0 FRS 15 FRN 30 FRN 30
5.0 FRS 25 FRN 50 FEN 50
10.3 Purchaser Furnished Items. Equipment and services furnished by
10.3.1 All MCC's.
10.3.2 All motors.
10;3.3 All Control Panels prewired to terminal strips.
10.3.4 Cable Trays and Feeder Cables including terminations to Power Dis-
tribution Panels only.
10.3.5 MCC Room Trench Ducts.
10.3:6 All underground conduit.
10.3.7 All Lightning Protection and Grounding Systems.
17
10.3.8 All thermocouple extension wire.
10.3.9 All dampers, valves, motor operators, limit switches, pressure
switches, and ignition controls.
10.3.10 All process instrumentation primary sensing elements and trans-
mitters.
10.3.11 Cable trays between CON and DFS Enclosure.
10.3.12 Power distribution panel boards.
18
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
SPECIAL MOTOR STARTING EQUIPMENT
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-52
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
wru Mm. GRoOM THOMAS J. SCHULTZ
Surface Combustion Division Surface Combustion Divisio
FRANKLIN* G. Rypt
Surface Combuj~ion Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
RICHARD W. MIcr ec ice
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
August 18, 1975
DATED
DA3583
7 7 DA01 6088-1
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for the manufacture,
performance, design and acceptance for motor starting equipment for a
200 horsepower, two-speed fan motor.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in
effect on date of invitation for bids or request for proposal form a
part of the specification to the extent applicable.
Specifications:
ECDS04-11 Motor Control Center for Deactivation Furnace.
Other Publications:
Supplemental Instructions to MIL-D-1000 for Drawings dated
18 February 1975.
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Act, 1970.
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part
of this specification to the extent applicable. Unless otherwise indicated,
the issue in effect on the date of invitation for-bids or request for
proposal shall apply.
Standards:
UL Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc.
NEMA National Electrical Manufacturers' Association
NFPA National Fire Protection Association International
NFPA 70-1975 (National Electric Code)
3
3.0 RERUIREMENTS
3.1 General. The motor starting equipment shall include an automatic
transfer switch and a closed transition autotransformer reduced voltage
starter for a two-speed, single winding variable torque fan motor.
3.2 Characteristics. The control equipment shall be designed for
operation of a 200 horsepower, 460 volt, 3 phase, 3 wire, 60 hertz,
variable torque, consequent pole, single winding motor.
3.2.1 Performance Characeristics.
3.2.1.1 Automatic Transfer Switch shall be provided ahead of the motor
starter and shall be connected to provide power for normal operation of
the motor at either high or low speed through the normal position Of the
switch. In the event of loss of normal power, the switch will auto-
matically throw over to the emergency position to provide power for low
speed operation of the fan. On restoration of normal power, the switch
shall retransfer to the normal supply. Switch shall protect against
feeder failure only. Full relay protection is not required.
3.211.1.1' Ratings shall be 300 amperes inductive load at 600 volts
a-c. Interrupting capacity shall be 15 times rated load.
3,2.1.1.2 Features shall include the following:
a. Electrically operated, mechanically held.
b. Positive interlocks.
c. Time delay on transfer (momentary outage protection).
d. Time delay on retransfer.
e. Auxiliary normally open (n.o.) contacts for switch posi-
tion monitoring.
f. 120 volt control circuit.
3.2.1.2 Two-Speed Starting Section shall be provided to control the
motor speed. On manual operation, a time delay shall be provided to
compel slow speed starting before manually changing to high speed. On
automatic operation, the timer shall automatically switch to high speed
after external interlock contacts are satisfied. The starter shall monitor
the above transfer switch to prevent high speed operation on emergency
-power. Starter shall be sized for the motor described in 3.2 Control
shall be 120 volt. Separate overloads shall be provided for each speed.
4
3.2.1.3 Reduced Voltage Starting is required for all slow-speed starts,
The starter shall be closed transition auto transformer type with taps
at 50%, 65% and 80% of full voltage. The autotransformer shall be
provided with thermal protection. Control shall be 120 volt. Red pilot
lights shall be provided in the door for both low and high speed.
3.2.2 Physical Characteristics.
3.2.2.1 Construction shall be compatible with NEMA Class I, Type B
standards for motor control centers. Individual vertical sections
shall have nominal dimensions of 20 inches deep by 90 inches high.
Lifting eyes and base mounting channels shall be provided for each
shipping section. The entire equipment shall be braced for fault currents
of 30,000 amperes root mean square (r.m.so) symmetrical, minimum.
Enclosures shall be NEMA 1, gasketed.
3.2.2.2 Protective Coating. The entire assembly shall be painted
in manufacturer's standards color of baked enamel. One can of
touch-up paint shall be included as part of this specification.
3.2.3 Environmental Conditions. The equipment shall be designed
and rated for continuous operation indoors at an altitude pressure of 12
pounds per square inch absolute and at ambient temperature from 10* C.
to 500 C.
3.3 Design and Construction.
3.3.1 General. The entire assembly shall conform to applicable pro-
visions of NEC Article 340 and each unit shall display the UL label.
3.3.2 Materials shall be new, of first quality, and properly protected
against deterioration. Enclosures shall be steel of minimum gauge speci-
fied by the NEC. Electrical conductors shall be tin-plated copper.
3.3.3 Engraved Nameplates shall be provided for identification of each
unit. Markings to be in accordance with Specification ECDS04-11.
3.3.4 Workmanship shall reflect best industry standards such that the
equipment shall be free of burrs, sharp edges, loose or missing bolts,*
and paint defects.
3.4 Documentation. Six sets of drawings for the equipment which in-
clude unit wiring diagrams and overall dimensions for each unit and the
assembly shall be provided. Drawings shall be in accordance with
Supplemental Instructions to MIL-D-1000", dated 18 February 1975.
Existing parts drawings shall conform to Form 3, Categories E and F.
New drawings shall conform to Form 2, Categories E and F.
5
4.0 QUALITY ASSURNACE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified in
the contract, the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of
all inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise
specified the manufacturer may utilize his own facilities or any commercial
laboratory acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the
right to perform any of the inspections set forth in the specification
where such inspections are deemed necessary to assure supplies and services
conform to prescribed requirements.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections.
4.2.1 General. Components of the motor starting equipment shall be
inspected to verify that the materials, construction, physical dimensions
and workmanship conform to the requirements as specified in paragraphs
3.2.2 and 3.3. The manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to
performance of required inspections in order that such inspections may
be witnessed by the*Purchaser's inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's
inspector shall not relieve the manufacturer from compliance with the
requirements as specified herein.
Upon delivery, verification of inspection of the equipment shall be
conducted at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delivery, and
acceptance shall be based upon compliance to the requirements as specified
herein.
4.2.2 Testing. Prior to shipment, the manufacturer shall test each
component to assure that it is mechanically functional.
Field tests shall be performed to assure that the assembly performs at
rated capacity in proper sequence as intended and described in para-
graph 3.2.1.
4,2.3 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the equipment to meet any
of the requirements and tests of this specification shall be considered
cause for rejection. All equipment that does not conform to this speci-
fication may be reworked by the manufacturer utilizing rework procedures
approved by the Purchaser with no additional cost to Purchaser.
6
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided bythe
manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in proper operating
condition with no refurbishing need before installation or use. The
equipment shall be as fully assembled as feasible for shipment. All
parts shall be identified for reassembly. All exposed finished parts
shall be safely crated and properly protected for shipment as noted
above. Preservatives shall be used to the extent necessary, but shall
be noted, with removal instructions included.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the manufacturer
shall be appropriately packaged in accordance with commercial practice
to ensure accpetance by common carrier for safe transportation and
shall be delivered F.O.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, Utah 84074
Mark "For Surface Combustion BB#4
7
6.0 NOTES
6.1 Intended Use. It is intended that this assembly become an integral
part of a motor control center (MCC) furnished under specification
ECDS04-11. This design should make provision both in layout and construc-
tion for physical match-up and connection with the associated MCC.
8
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
SPECIAL MOTOR STARTING EQUIPMENT
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-52-A
REVISED BY: CONCURRENCE:
W. WILLIS ARTHUR A. KEEL
Surface Division Surface Division
I)
F NLIN G. RINKER
Surface Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
RICHARD W. MISIEWICZ
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
DATED: August 18, 1975
REVISED DATE: March 28, 1977
E57 DIAO688II-2DA358378 A01 60 8-2
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for the manufacture,
performance, design and acceptance for motor starting equipment for a
200 horsepower, two-speed fan motor.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in
effect on date of invitation for bids or request for proposal-form a
part of the specification to the extent applicable.
Specifications:
ECDS04-11 Motor Control Center for Deactivation Furnace.
Other Publications:
Supplemental Instructions to MIL-D-1000 for Drawings dated
18 February 1975.
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Act, 1970.
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part
of this specification to the extent applicable. Unless otherwise indicated,
the issue in effect on the date of invitation for bids or request for
proposal shall apply.
Standards:
UL Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc.
NEMA National Electrical Manufacturers' Association
NFPA National Fire Protection Association International
NFPA 70-1975 (National Electric Code)
3
3.0 REQUIRMWTS
3.1 General. The motor starting equipment shall include an automatic
transfer switch and a closed transition autotransformer reduced voltage
starter for a two-speed, single winding variable torque fan motor.
3.2 Characteristics. The control equipment shall be designed for
operation of a 200 horsepower, 460 volt, 3 phase, 3 wire, 60 hertz,
variable torque, consequent pole, single winding motor.
3.2.1 Performance Characteristics.
3.2.1.1 Automatic Transfer Switch shall be provided ahead of the motor
starter and shall be connected to provide power for normal operation of
the motor at either high or low speed through the normal position of the
switch. In the event of loss of normal power, the switch will auto-
matically throw over to the emergency position to provide power for low
speed operation of the fan. On restoration of normal power, the switch
shall retransfer to the normal supply. Switch shall protect against
feeder failure only. Full relay protection is not required.
3.2.1.1.1 Ratings shall be 400 amperes inductive load at 600 volts
a-c. Interrupting capacity shall be 10 times rated load.
3.2.1.1.2 Features shall include the following:
a. Electrically operated, mechanically held.
b. Positive interlocks.
c. Time delay on transfer (momentary outage protection).
d. Time delay on retransfer.
e. Auxiliary contacts for switch position monitoring.
f. 120 volt control circuit.
3.2.1.2 Two-Speed Starting Section shall be provided to control the
motor speed. On manual operation, a time delay shall be provided to compel
slow speed starting before manually changing to high speed. On automatic
operation, the timer shall automatically switch to high speed after external
interlock contacts are satisfied. The starter shall monitor the above
transfer switch to prevent high speed operation on emergency power. Starter
shall be sized for the motor described in 3.2. Control shall be 120 volt.
Separate overloads shall be provided for each speed.
4
3.2.1.3 Reduced Voltage Starting is required for all slow-speed starts.
The starter shall be closed transition autotransformer type with taps
at 50%, 65%, and 80% of full voltage. The autotransformer shall be
provided with thermal protection. Control shall be 120 volt. Red pilot
lights shall be provided in the door for both low and high speed.
3.2.2 Physical Characteristics.
3.2.2.1 Construction shall be compatible with NEMA Class I, Type B
standards for motor control centers. Individual vertical sections shall
have nominal dimensions of 20 inches deep by 90 inches high. Lifting
eyes and base mounting channels shall be provided for each shipping section.
The entire equipment shall be braced for fault currents of 42,000 amperes
root mean square (r.m.s.) symmetrical, minimum. Enclosures shall be NEMA 1,
gasketed.
3.2.2.2 Protective Coating. The entire assembly shall be painted in
manufacturer's standards color of baked enamel. One can of touch-up paint
shall be included as part of this specification.
3.2.3 Environmental Conditions. The equipment shall be designed and rated
for continuous operation indoors at an altitude pressure of 12 pounds per
square inch absolute and at ambient temperature from 100 C. to 500 C.
3.3 Design and Construction.
3.3.1 General. The entire assembly shall conform to applicable provisions
of NEC Article 340 and each unit shall display the UL label.
3.3.2 Materials shall be new, of first quality, and properly protected
against deterioration. Enclosures shall be steel of minimum gauge specified
by the NEC. Electrical conductors shall be tin-plated copper. Aluminum
shall not be used.
3.3.3 Engraved Nameplates shall be provided for identification of each unit.
Markings to be in accordance with Specification ECDS04-11.
3.3.4 Workmanship shall reflect best industry standards such that the
equipment shall be free of burrs, sharp edges, loose or missing bolts, and
paint defects.
3.4 Documenation. Six sets of drawings for the equipment which include unit
wiring diagrams and overall dimensions for each unit and the assembly shall
be provided. Drawings shall be in accordance with Supplemental Instructions to
MIL-D-1000, dated 18 February 1975. Existing parts drawings shall conform to
Form 3, Categories E and F. New drawings shall conform to Form 2, Categories
E and F.
5
4.0 QU4iTY AssURANcE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified in the
contract, the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of all
inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise specified
the manufacturer may utilize his own facilities or any commercial laboratory
acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right to perform
any of the inspections set forth in the specification where such inspections
are deemed necessary to assure supplies and services conform to prescribed
requirements.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections.
4.2.1 General. Components of the motor starting equipment shall be inspected
to verify that the materials, construction, physical dimensions and workmanship
conform to the requirements as specified in paragraphs 3.2.2 and 3.3. The
manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of required
inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed by the Purchaser's
inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector shall not relieve the
manufacturer from compliance with the requirements as specified herein.
Upon delivery, verification of inspection of the equipment shall be conducted
at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delivery, and acceptance shall
be based upon compliance to the requirements as specified herein.
4.2.2 Testing. Prior to shipment, the manufacturer shall test each component
to assure that it is mechanically functional.
Field tests shall be performed to assure that the assembly performs at rated
capacity in proper sequence as intended and described in paragraph 3.2.1.
4.2.3 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the equipment to meet any of the
requirements and tests of this specification shall be considered cause for
rejection. All equipment that does not conform to this specification may
be reworked by the manufacturer utilizing rework procedures approved by
the Purchaser with no additional cost to Purchaser.
6
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the
manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in proper operating
condition with no refurbishing need before installation or use. The
equipment shall be as fully assembled as feasible for shipment. All
parts shall be identified for reassembly. All exposed finished parts shall
be safely crated and properly protected for shipment as noted above.
Preservatives shall be used to the extent necessary, but shall be noted,
with removal instructions included.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the manufacturer
shall be appropriately packaged in accordance with commercial practice
to ensure acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation and shall
be delivered F.O.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, Utah 84074
Mark "For Surface Combustion BB#4"
7
6.0 NOTES
6.1 Intended Use. It is intended that this assembly become an integral
part of a motor control center (MCC) furnished under specification ECDS04-11.
This design should make provision both in layout and construction for
physical match-up and connection with the associated MCC.
6.2 The margins of this specification are marked with a vertical line
to indicate where changes (additions, modifications, corrections, deletions)
from the previous issue were made. This was done as a convenience only
and the Government assumes no liability whatsoever for any inaccuracies
in these notations. Bidders and contractors are cautioned to evaluate
the requirements of this document based on the entire content irrespective
of the marginal notation and relationship to the last previous issue.
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
REDUCED VOLTAGE MOTOR STARTING EQUIPMENT
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-53
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
•(LLIS . WILLIS ARTHUR A. KEEL
Surface Division Surface Division
-FRANKLIN G. R1iKtR
Surface Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
ICHARD W. MISIEWICZ
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
January 14, 1977
DATED
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for 
the manufacture,
performance, design and acceptance for reduced voltage motor 
starting
equipment for a 200 horsepower, fan motor.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in
effect on date of invitation for bids or request for proposal form a
part of the specification to the-extent applicable.
Specifications:
ECDS04-52 Special Motor Starting Equipment for Deactivation Furnace.
Other Publications:
Supplemental Instructions to MIL-D-1000 for Drawings dated
18 February 1975.
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Act, 1970.
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of
this specification to the extent applicable. Unless otherwise indicated,
the issue in effect on the date of invitation for bids or request for
proposal shall apply.
Standards:
UL Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc.
NEMA National Electrical Manufacturers' Association
NFPA National Fire Protection Association International
NFPA 70-1975 (National Electric Code)
3
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. The reduced voltage motor starting equipment shall be a
high inertia rated autotransformer type with a closed-circuit transition
and a separate 120 volt control. It shall be compatible with and shall
operate with special motor starting equipment furnished under Specification
ECDS04-52.
3.2 Characteristics. r
3.2.1. Performance Characteristics. The equipment shall sta 200
horsepower, 460 volt, 3 phase, 3 wire, 60 Hertz motor.
3.2.1.1 Ratings.
a. Motor Voltage 460 volts
b. Motor Horsepower 200 hp
c. NEMA Size 5
d. Continuous Ampere Rating 270 amps
e. Starter Coil Voltage 480 volts
f. Maximum Voltage 600 volts
g. Tap Voltages (percent of full line voltage) 50%,
fX r65%
00 80%
3.2.1.2 Starting Cycle. The fo'1s45npg starting cycle shall be used to
accomplish transition from reduded to full voltage without opening the
* motor circuit.
a. Operation of an external start button or a pilot device shall
close the "neutral" and "start" contactors, thereby applying
reduced voltage to the motor through the autotransformer.
b. After a preset-interval, the timer contacts shall drop out
10\t \the "neutral" contactor, thereby breaking the autotransformer
connection but leaving part of the windings connected to the
motor as a series reactor.
c. The "run" contactor shall then close and short out this
reactance and apply full voltage to the motor.
3.2.1.3 Duty Cycle. The equipment shall allow the following duty
cycle:
a. 15 second operation out of each four minutes for one hour.
b. Rest period of two hours.
4
3.2.2 Physical Characteristics. The enclosure shall be compatible with
NEMA Class I, Type B standards for motor control centers. It shall have
nominal dimensions of 20 inches deep, 24 inches wide and 76 inches high.
The equipment shall be braced for fault currents of 30,000 amperes root
mean square (r.m.s.) symmetrical, minimum. Enclosures shall be NEMA 1,
gasketed.
3.2.2.1 Components. The basic components shall be as listed below:
a. Three 3-pole contactors (start, neutral, and run)
b. 3-phase starting autotransformer (high inertia rating)
c. Adjustable pneumatic timer
d. Three-pole block type overload relay
e. Thermal switch for. protection against overheating
3.2.2.2 Protective Coating. The entire assembly shall be painted in
manufacturer's standards color of baked enamel. One can of touch-up
paint shall be included as part of this specification.
3.2.3 Environmental Conditions. The equipment shall be designed and
rated for continuous operation indoors at an altitude pressure of 12
pounds per square inch absolute and at ambient temperature from 10 C to
50C.
3.3 Design and Construction.
3.3.1 General. The entire assembly shall conform to applicable provi-
sions of NEC Article 340 and each unit shall display the UL label.
3.3.2 Materials shall be new, of first quality, and properly protected
against deterioration. Enclosures shall be steel of minimum gauge
specified by the NEC. Electrical conductors shall be tin-plated copper.
3.3.3 Engraved Nameplate shall be provided for identification of the
unit. Markings shall be as shown below:
INDUCED DRAFT FAN
HI-SPEED AUTOTRANSFORMER
MOTOR STARTER
SPECIFICATION ECDS04-53
3.3.4 Workmanship shall reflect best industry standards such that the
equipment shall be free of burrs, sharp edges, loose or missing bolts,
and paint defects.
3.4 Documentation. Fifteen sets of drawings for the equipment which
include unit wiring diagrams and overall dimensions for each unit and
the assembly shall be provided. Drawings shall be in accordance with
Supplemental Instructions to MIL-D-1000, dated 18 February 1975.
Existing parts drawings shall conform to Form 3, Categories E and F.
New drawings shall conform to Form 2, Categories E and F.
5
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified in the
contract, the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of all
inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise specified
the manufacturer may utilize his own facilities or any commercial laboratory
acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right to perform
any of the inspections set forth in the specification where such inspections
are deemed necessary to assure supplies and services conform to prescribed
requirements.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections.
4.2.1 General. Components of the motor starting equipment shall be
inspected to verify that the materials, construction, physical dimensions
and workmanship conform to the requirements as specified in paragraphs
3.2.2 and 3.3. The manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to
performance of required inspections in order that such inspections may
be witnessed by the Purchaser's inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's
inspector shall not relieve the manufacturer from compliance with the
requirements as specified herein.
Upon delivery, verification of inspection of the equipment shall be
conducted at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delivery, and
acceptance shall be based upon compliance to the requirements as specified
herein.
4.2.2 Testing. Prior to shipment, the manufacturer shall test each
component to assure that it is mechanically functional.
Field tests shall be performed to assure that the assembly performs at
rated capacity in proper sequence as intended and described in paragraph
3.2.1.
4.2.3 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the equipment to meet any of
the requirements and tests of this specification shall be considered
cause for rejection. All equipment that does not conform to this speci-
fication may be reworked by the manufacturer utilizing rework procedures
approved by the Purchaser with no additional cost to Purchaser.
6
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the
manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in proper operating
condition with no refurbishing needed before installation or use. The
equipment shall be as fully assembled as feasible for shipment. All
parts shall be identified for reassembly. All exposed finished parts
shall be safely crated and properly protected for shipment as noted
above. Preservatives shall be used to the extent necessary, but shall
be noted, with removal instructions included.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the manufacturer
shall be appropriately packaged in accordance with commercial practice
to ensure acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation and shall
be delivered F.O.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, Utah 84074
Mark "For Surface Combustion BB#4"
ITA
* LO~u1
0" 5r
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
VENTURI
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE SYSTEM
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-27
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
•" J. K. SHAN
B. R. FRALEY
Surface Combustion Division Surface Combustion Division
0h
ANKNIN G. INER
Surface Combustion Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
RICHARD MISIEWIC
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
April 16, 1975
DATED
111111 6090-IlII IIDA358380 DAO1 6090-1
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for the design,
fabrication, testing, acceptance and delivery of one (1) venturi
complete with supports and other accessories, described herein.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in
effect on the date of invitation for bid, or request for proposal, form a
part of this specification to the extent specified herein.
Other Publications:
Supplemental Instructions to MIL-D-1000, dated 18 February 1975.
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of
this specification, to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise indicated,
the issue in effect on the date of invitation to bid, or request for proposal
shall apply.
Specifications:
ASME American Society of Mechanical Engineers
Standards:
Huntington Alloy Product Standards, Division of the International Nickel Company
3
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. The venturi specified herein shall be of Inconcel 625 (See
4.2.3) or approved equivalent construction. It will be equipped with variable
area throat such that a constant pressure drop can be maintained automatically.
3.2 Characteristics.
3.2.1 Performance. The venturi shall be capable for removing 99% of
particulate material greater than or equal to 0.8 micron in size in the
gaseous stream.
The venturi shall be capable of handling a maximum gas flow rate of
13,500 actual cubic feet per minute (a.c.f.m.) at 3000 F. and 12 pounds
per square inch absolute (p..s .i.a.) inlet pressure. The venturi shall
be designed for a working pressure of 14.9 p.s.i.g. (See 4.2.2.)
3.3 Design and Construction. The venturi in this specification shall be
designed and constructed to comply with established industry standards
and ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1 which
shall govern in all cases, except that where conflict is apparent, the con-
tents of this specification shall govern. (Venturi need not be stamped.)
3.3.1 Flanges. Bolt holes in fabricated flanges shall be drilled or punched.
Burning of holes shall not be permitted.
3.3.2 Welding. All welders shall be tested in accordance with ASME
Section IX and the requirements contained in this specification. Attach-
ments inside or outside shall be seal welded, in addition to strength welds,
with a minimum of 1/8" throat. All longitudinal and circumferential butt-
joints shall be double-welded. (Single welded butt-joints may be made
with a backing strip only where double-welded joints cannot be made.)
All corrosion resistant material welds shall conform to Inconel 625 speci-
fications as to preparation for welding, weld procedure, and inspection
per Huntington Alloy Product Standards, Division of International Nickel
Company.
3.3.3 Identification Marking. The manufacturer shall furnish and attach
a permanent stainless steel nameplate to the outside wall of the venturi
showing "CAMDS specification number ECDS04-27".
4
3..3.4 Workmanship. The inside and outside of the venturi shall be
cleaned of weld spatter, slag, flux deposits, burrs and splinters,
loose mill scale, and all other foreign matter. All sharp corners or
edges shall be broken to prevent harm to persons coming into contact
with the unit.
3.4 Documentation.
3.4.1 Drawings. The venturi manufacturer shall prepare and furnish
drawings, diagrams, and descriptive information which will incorporate
the following:
a. General assembly arrangement and features of all components.
b. Size, weight and material specifications, where applicable, for
all major components of critical design, and construction features required.
c. Interfacing elements in detail, safety provisions, insulation,
seals and support equipment required.
d. Mounting details.
3.4.2 Drawing Format. All drawings shall be prepared in accordance
with "Supplemental Instructions to MIL-D-1000n, dated 18 February 1975.
Existing parts drawings must conform to Form 3, Categories E and F. New
drawings to conform to Form 2, Categories E and F.
5
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified in the
contract, the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of all
inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise specified,
the manufacturer may utilize his own facilities or any commercial laboratory
acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right to perform
any of the inspections set forth in the specification where such inspections
are deemed necessary to assure supplies and services conform to prescribed
requirements.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections.
4.2.1 General. Components of the venturi shall be inspected to verify
that the materials of construction, physical dimensions and workmanship
conform to the requirements as specified herein.
The manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of
required inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed by
the Purchaser's. inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector shall
not relieve the manufacturer from compliance with the requirements as
specified herein.
Upon delivery, verification of inspection of the equipment shall be conducted
at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delivery, and acceptance shall
be based upon compliance to the requirements as specified herein.
4.2.2 Pneumatic Tests. Venturi shall be pneumatically tested at 1 1/2 times
the maximum allowable working pressure in accordance with ASME, Section
VII, Division 1, Paragraph UG-100. Duration of the leak test shall be a mini-
mum of four (4) hours.
Notes:
1. All openings shall be equipped with leak tight gaskets
(using blind flanges except at air entry).
2. Venturi shall be isolated from pressure or vacuum source
during test holding period.
3. All defects disclosed as a result of this testing shall be
remedied.
4. Tests must be repeated in case of failure or repair.
6
5. All repairs shall be made with new materials and no caulking
of screwed joints, holes or cracks will be acceptable.
4.2.3 Material Tests. Manufacturer will certify that corrosion resistant
materials used in the fabrication conform to the requirements of 3.0.
4.2.4 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the venturi to meet any of the
requirements and tests of this specification shall be considered cause for
rejection. All equipment that does not conform to this specification may
be reworked by the manufacturer utilizing rework procedures approved
by the Purchaser with no additional cost to Purchaser.
7
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the venturi
manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in proper operating condition
with no refurbishing needed before installation or use. The venturi shall be
as fully assembled as feasible for shipment. All parts shall be carefully
matchmarked for reassembly. All exposed finished parts shall be safely
crated and properly protected for shipment as noted above. Preservatives
shall be used to the extent necessary, but shall be noted, with removal
instructions included.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the venturi manu-
facturer shall be appropriately packaged in accordance with commercial
practice to insure acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation
and shall be delivered F .O .B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, UT 84074
MARK FOR: SURFACE COMBUSTION BB#4
ý8
6.0 NOTES
6.1 The maximum pressure drop across the venturi should be limited to
20" water column (w.c.) at the operating conditions to achieve the
required performance pertaining to particulate removal.
6.2 The venturi must be capable of meeting the specifications at all
inlet gas flows between 4500 and 13,500 actual cubic feet per minute
(a.c.f.m.) at 3000 F. and 12 pounds per square inch absolute (p.s.i.a.)
pressure.
9
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
CYCLONE
FOR DEACTIVATION FURNACE SYSTEM
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-28
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
B. RA FRALEY .
w"
Surface Combustion Division Surface Combustion Division
Surface Combustion Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
RICHARD MISIEWICZ /
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
APR 1 6 1975
DATED
Ill IDlllI IIIl-lI lIlt ll IiIiiDA358381 DA016091-
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for the design,
fabrication, testing, acceptance and delivery of one (1) cyclone dust
collector complete with supports, rotary dust outlet valve and other
accessories, described herein.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in
effect on the date of invitation for bid, or request for proposal, form a
part of this specification to the extent specified herein.
Other Publications:
Supplemental Instructions to MIL-D-1000, dated 18 February 1975.
2. 2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of
this specification, to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise indicated,
the issue in effect on the date of invitation to bid, or request for proposal
shall apply.
Specifications:
ASME American Society of Mechanical Engineers
Standards:
AWS American Welding Society
3
3.0 REQoUIEMENTS
3.1 General. A cyclone dust collector shall be designed to separate
particulate matter from the effluent gases leaving the deactivation furnace.
The cyclone inlet and outlet will have flanged connections. Four (4) lugs
will be provided on the cylindrical section of the cyclone to support it on
a frame structure provided by Purchaser. A motorized rotary valve with
flanged connection will be bolted to the bottom of the conical section of the
cyclone. The cyclone shall be sized to handle 11,000 actual cubic feet per
minute (a.cif.m.) of gases at 12000 F. and 12 pounds per square inch
(p .s .i.a) inlet pressure. The rotary valve shall have a capacity to handle
40-60 pounds per hour (lbs. /hr.) of particulate matter with a bulk density
of 20-30 pounds per cubic foot (lbs./cu. ft.).
3.2 Characterstics.
3.2.1 Performance. The inlet conditions for the cyclone will be as follows:
a. Gas flow ---------------------------- 11,000 a.c.f.m.
b. Temperature------------------------ 12000 F.
c. Operating pressure ------------------- 2.0" water gauge (w.g.)
d.- Barometric pressure ----------------- 12.0 p.s.i.a.
e. Casing design pressure --------------- 14.9 p.s.i.g. (See 4.2.2.)
f. Dust to be removed ------------------ mineral dust and fiberglass
particulates
g. Bulk density of particulates ----------- 20-30 lbs. /cu. ft.
h. Dust loading ------------------- 0.4 grams/a.c.f.m.
i.., Particulate size range- -------------- 40% less than 1 micron
6% 8 to 24 microns
19% 24 to 40 microns
35% greater than 40 microns
The operating conditions for the cyclone. will be as follows:
a. Pressure drop----- 2 to 4 inches water column depending on
the flow rate;- 4 inches water column should
occur at 11,000 a.c.f.m.
b. Efficiency --------- An overall efficiency of 60% with 95%
efficiency for + 20 micron particles
4
3.2.2 Physical Characteristics. The cyclone described herein shall
conform to the following:
Inlet diameter --------- 24" approximately
Outlet diameter -------- 38" approximately
Total height ---------- 215" approximately
Diameter of cylindrical
section -------------- 75" approximately
Diameter at the bottom
of the conical section- 10" approximately
3.3 Design and Construction.
3.3.1 Material. The cyclone shall be fabricated from stainless steel 316L.
The rotary valve also shall be of stainless steel 316L construction. (See
4.2.3.) The cyclone walls shall be insulated such that maximum heat loss
from the external surface will not exceed 200 British Thermal Units (BTU)
per hour (hr.) per square foot (ft. 2 ).
3.3.2 Welding. All welders shall be tested in accordance. with ASME
Section IX and the requirements contained in this specification. Attach-
ments inside or outside shall be seal welded, in addition to strength welds,
with a minimum of 1/8" throat. All longitudinal and circumferential butt-
joints shall be double-welded. (Single welded butt-joints may be made with
a backing strip only where double-welded joints cannot be made.) All
corrosion resistant material welds shall conform to AWS standards as to
preparation for welding, weld procedure, and inspection.
3.3.3 Identification and Marking. Manufacturer shall. furnish and attach
to. the outside of the shell of the cyclone a permanent flush mounted stainless
steel nameplate showing "CAMDS specification number ECDS04-28".
3.3.4 Workmanship. The inside and outside of cyclone, including brackets,
shall be cleaned of weld spatter, slag, flux deposits, burrs and splinters,
loose mill scale, and all other foreign matter. All. sharp corners or edges
shall be broken to prevent harm to persons coming into contact with the
unit.
3.4 Documentation.
3.4.1 Drawings. The cyclone manufacturer shall prepare and furnish
drawings, diagrams, and descriptive information which will incorporate
the following:
a. General assembly arrangement and features of all components.
5
b. Size, weight and material specifications, where applicable,
for all major components of critical design, and construction features
required.
c. Interfacing elements in detail, safety provisions, insulation,
seals and support equipment required.
d. Mounting details, including location needs of controls in site
control booth.
3.4.2 Drawing Format. All drawings shall be prepared in accordance
with "Supplemental Instructions to MIL-D-1000", dated 18 February 1975.
Existing parts drawings must conform to Form 3, Categories E and F. New
drawings to conform to Form 2, Categories E and F.
6
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified in the
contract, the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of all
inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as otherwise specified
the manufacturer may utilize his own facilities or any commercial laboratory
acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser reserves the right to perform
any of the inspections set forth in the specification where such inspections
are deemed necessary to assure supplies and services conform to prescribed
requirements.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections.
4.2.1 General. Components of the cyclone shall be inspected to verify
that the materials of construction, physical dimensions and workmanship
conform to the requirements as specified herein.
The manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of
required inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed by the
Purchaser's inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector shall not
relieve the manufacturer from compliance with the requirements as specified
herein.
Upon delivery, verification of inspection of the equipment shall be conducted
at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delivery, and acceptance shall
be. based upon compliance to the requirements as specified herein.
4.2.2 Pneumatic Test. Cyclone shall be pneumatically tested at 1 1/2 times
the maximum allowable working pressure in accordance with ASME, Section
VIII, Division 1, Paragraph UG-100. Duration of the leak test shall be a mini-
mum of four (4) hours.
Notes:
1. All openings shall be equipped with leak tight gaskets (using
blind flanges except at air entry).
2. Cyclone shall be isolated from pressure or vacuum source
during test holding period.'
3. All defects disclosed as a result of this testing shall be remedied.
4. Tests must be repeated in case of failure or repair.
7
5. All repairs shall be made with new materials and no caulking
of screwed joints, holes or cracks will be acceptable.
4.2.3 Material Tests. Manufacturer will certify that corrosion resistant
materials used in this fabrication conform to the requirements of 3.3.1.
4.2.4 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the cyclone to meet any of the
requirements and tests of this specification shall be considered cause for
rejection. All equipment that does not conform to this specification may be
reworked by the manufacturer utilizing rework procedures approved by
the Purchaser with no additional cost to Purchaser.
8
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the cyclone
manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in proper operating condition
with no refurbishing needed before installation or use. The cyclone shall be
as fully assembled as feasible for shipment. All parts shall be carefully
matchmarked for reassembly. All exposed finished parts shall be safely
crated and properly protected for shipment as noted above. Preservatives
shall be used to the extent necessary, but shall be noted, with removal
instructions included.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the cyclone manu-
facturer shall be appropriately packaged in accordance with commercial
practice to insure acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation
and shall be delivered FO.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, UT 84074
MARK FOR: SURFACE COMBUSTION BB#4
9
SPECIFICATION FOR
WALL COVERING, ROOF COVERING
AND
PREFABRICATED ROOMS
SPECIFICATION
04-31
31 JULY 1975
NCLUDES CHANGE DATED 18 FEBURARY 1977
SOFYANOS
CHEMICAL AGENT/MUNITIONS DISPOSAL SYSTEM
CAMDS ACTIVITY
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
DAW5838
2 DA01 60 92-
SPECIFICATION FOR
WALL COVERING, ROOF COVERING
AND
PREFABRICATED ROOMS
SPECIFICATION
04-31
31 JULY 1975
INCLUDES CHANGE DATED 18 FEBURARY 1977
SOFYANOS
SPECIFICATION CHANGE NOTICE
(SEE MZL-STD-490 FOR INSTArUCTIOS) DATE PREPARED 02/18/77
1. ORIGIiNATOR NAIVE AND ADDRESS 2. 3. CODE IDENT. 4. SPEC. NO.
Surface Division PROPOSE 58588 ECDS04-31
Midland-Ross Corporation 5. CODE IDENT. 6. SCM NO.
P. 0. Box 907, Toledo, Ohio 43691 I APP ROVED 58588 1
7. SYSTEM DESIGNATION 8. RELATED ECP NO. 9. CONIRACT NO. 110. CONTRACTUAL ACTIVITY
Deactivat ion Fce. I None DA 15-75-C-0110 As Built
it. CONFIGURATION ITEM NOMENCLATURE 12. EFFECTIVITY
Wall Covering, Roof Covering, and Pre- All
Fabricated Rooms
THIS NOTICE INFORMS RECIPIENTS THAT THE SPECIFICATION IDENTIFIED BY THE NUMBER (AND REVISION LETTER)
SHOWN IN BLOCK 4 HAS BEEN CHANGED. THE PAGES CHANGED BY THIS SCR BEING THOSE FURNISHED HEREWITH AND
CARRYING THE SAME DATE AS THIS SCN. THE PAGES OF THE PAGE NM.BERS AND DATES LISTED BELOW IN THE
SUMMARY OF CHANGED PAGES. COMBINED WITH NON.LISTEO PAGES OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE OF THE REVISION
SHOWN IN BLOCK 4. CONSTITUTE THE CURRENT VERSION OF THIS SPECIFICATION.
13 , 14 . * A I 
S
SCN NO. PAGES CHANGED (INDICATE DELETIONS) S DATE
Pages Changed and Transmitted Herewith
1 3 X 02/18/77
10 X 02/18/77
16. TECHNICAL CONCURRENCE DATE
D D ' ° 1696 s. ,adic, ., uper.ed,,, s ,ol,.r p. ,. 'A' ,dic.,i .dded p.,,.DD DEC,, 1696~~oza-t
ECDS04-31
02/18/77
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in
effect on the date of invitation for bid, or request for proposal, form
a part of this specification to the extent specified herein.
SPECIFICATIONS:
FF-H-106 Hardware, Builders'; Locks and Door Trim
FF-H-116 Hinges, Hardware, Builders'
FF-H-121 Hardware, Builders', Door-Closing Devices
HH-I-558 Insulation, Blocks, Boards, Blankets, Felts, Sleeving (Pipe
and Tube Covering), and Pipe Fitting Covering, Thermal
(Mineral Fiber, Industrial Type)
S RR-D-575 Door, Metal, Sliding and Swinging: Door Frame, Metal (Flush
and Semiflush)
DRAWINGS:
ECDS04-751-O (4 sheets) Enclosure - Architectural Details
ECDS04-751-02 Effluent Gas Monitoring Station (EGOS) and
Motor Control Center (MCC) Rooms
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of
this specification, to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise
indicated, the issue in effect on the date of the invitation to bid, or
request for proposal shall apply.
SPECIFICATIONS:
AISI American Iron and Steel Institute
.c4tv ASHRAE American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning
-Engineers, Inc.
NAAMM The National Association of Architectural Metal Manufacturers
_ -e- STANDARDS:
ASTM American Society for Testing and Materials
MBMA Metal Building Manufacturers Association
UBC Uniform Building Code
e.*
ECDS04-31
02/18/77
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the
manufacturer to assure arrival at the site of components of the structure
in a dry and undamaged condition.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the manufacturer
shall be appropriately packaged in accordance with commercial practice
to insure acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation and shall
be delivered F.O.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, Utah 84074
MARK FOR: Surface Combustion BB#4
6.0 NOTES
6.1 The margins of this specification are marked with a vertical line
to indicate where changes (additions, modifications, corrections,
deletions) from the previous issue were made. This was done as a con-
venience only and the Government assumes no liability whatsoever for any
inaccuracies in these notations. Bidders and contractors are cautioned
to evaluate the requirements of this document based on the entire content
irrespective of the marginal notation and relationship to the last
previous issue.
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
WALL COVERING, ROOF COVERING, AND PREFABRICATED ROOMS
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-31
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
S. JO'N SOFYANOS/ " J. K.2SHAH
Surface Combustion Division Surface Combustion 
Divi sci
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
RICHARD W. MISIEWICZ (-)
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
July 31, 1975
DATED
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification covers the requirements for the design, fabrication,
and delivery of insulated metal wall covering, roof covering with insulation,
doors, windows and in general, all items necessary to architecturally enclose
a previously fabricated and erected structural steel tower. This specifica-
tion also covers the design, furnishing and delivery of two pre-fabricated
rooms within the main tower enclosure for the effluent gas monitoring station
and the motor cr trol center. These items shall be erected on a previously
prepared foundaic'n with previously placed anchor bolts for attachment of the
columns girts, and other appurtenances of the enclosure to the foundation.
These items shall be fabricated off-site and delivered to the site for unloading,
storage and erection by others.
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in effect
on the date of invitation for bid, or request for proposal, form a part
of this specification to the extent specified herein.
Specifications:
FF-H-106 Hardware, Builders'; Locks and Door Trim
FF-H-116 Hinges, Hardware, Builders'
FF-H-121 Hardware, Builders', Door-Closing Devices
HH-I-558 Insulation, Blocks, Boards, Blankets, Felts, Sleeving (Pipe
and Tube Covering), and Pipe Fitting Covering, Thermal
(Mineral Fiber, Industrial Type)
RR-D-575 Door, Metal, Sliding and Swinging: Door Frame, Metal (Flush
and Semiflush)
Drawings
ECDS04-751-01 (Sheet 1 of 4): Enclosure - Architectural Details
ECDS04-751-01 (Sheet 2 of 4): Enclosure - Arcnitectural Details
ECDS04-751-01 (Sheet 3 of 4): Enclosure - Architectural Details
ECDS04-751-01 (Sheet 4 of 4): Enclosure - Architectural Details
ECDS04-751-02 (Sheet 1 of 1): Effluent Gas Monitoring Station (EGMS) and
Motor Control Center (MCC) Rooms
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of this
specification, to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise indicated,
the issue in effect on the date of the invitation to bid, or request for
proposal shall apply.
Specifications:
AISI American Iron and Steel Institute
ASHRAE American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning
Engineers, Inc.
NAAMM The National Association of Architectural Metal Manufacturers
Standards:
ASTM American Society for Testing and Materials
MBMA Metal Building Manufacturers Association
UBC Uniform Building Code
3
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. The wall -:overing, roof covering and the pre-fabricated
rooms shall be the product of a recognized metal enclosure 
manufacturer,
All the walls enclosing the afterburner and cyclone except the common 
wall
with scrubber enclosure area shall be non-insulated, but airtight, to
afford reasonable circulation of air at the rate of six (6) air changes
per hour and the enclosure must be reasonably sealed from the rest of 
the
structure by use of a common insulated wall. The balance of. •he s:de
wall construction shall be insulated up to wainscot height all as shown
on drawing ECDS04-751-01o The E.G.M.S. and M C C. room constructlra is
of insulated metal wall covering consisting of inner smooth sheet9 :nsulation
fluted outside wall covering. The roof covering of the same room shall be
of same construction of the walls,
3.2 Characteristics. The wall covering and roof cove-ing shall be designed
for the following loads:
a. Vertical live load of 40 pounds per square foot.
b. Design wind pressure 20 pounds per square foot,
c. Seismic loads as applicable to Zone 3 as per the UBC Code, 19'3 Edition.
3.3 Design and Construction
3.3.1 Exterior Covering
3.3.1.1 Design. Unless otherwise specified, covering shall be designed in
accordance with AISI publication, Specificaticn for- the Design cf Cold-Formed
Steel Structural Members. Maximum windload deflqctic'. for wall sheaets shall
not exceed 1/80th of the span between supports, Maximum deflec_icns shall
be based on sheets continuous across two or more supports with sheets
unfastened and fully free to deflect.
3.3.1.2 Materials. Wall covering and roof covering shall be zn .c-...ated
steel conforming to ASTM A446, G90 coating designaticn Steel Sheet; Zin:
Coated (Galvanized) by the Hct-Dip Process, Physical Qu zi!,o-r  ,I7ty
factory color finished; 27 galvanized sheet gauge cr Chle:. 2cve,:ng
shall have configuration for overlapping adjacent sher., cr '.rtFrl: :lUng
ribs for securing adjacent. sheets. Width of sheets with ov~a.itg :
figurations shall provide not less than 24 inchas of ccverage it pin e; width
of sheets with interlocking ribs shall provide nct less than 12 :iches of
coverage in place. Depth of configurations for roof covering s&all be
not less than 1-1/2 inches. Length of sheets shall be suffi¢cent to co.-er
the entire length of any unbroken roof slope or the entire height of any unbroken
wall surface when such slope of height is 25 feet or less. Sheets in excess
of 30 feet shall have design provisions for thermal expansion and contrac-
tions. All sheets shall be square cut, except gable and wall sheets may be
cut in the shop to correspond to the roof slope and may have a horizcntal joint
at the eave line.
4
3.322 Accessories. Accessories of zinc-coated steel chall be used for
flashing, trim, metal closure strips, caps, and similar metal accessories
and shall be not less than the minimum thicknesses specified for covering.
Molded closure strips shall be bituminous-saturated fiber, closed-cell
or solid-cell synthetic rubber or neoprene, or polyvinyl chloride premolded to
match configuration of the covering.
3.3.3 Fasteners shall be of types and sizes best suited for the purpose.
Fasteners for seLuring covering and accessory items shall be ASTM A400
series corrosion resistant stainless steel, Gasketed washers of a material
compatible with the covering and with a minimum diameter of 3/8 inch for
structural connections shall be provided to waterproof the fastener penetration
on the exterior side. Gasketed portion of washers shall be neoprene or
equivalent elast~meric material approximately 1/8 inch thick. Exposed
wall fasteners shall be factory color finished or provided with plastic color
caps to match the covering.
3.3.4 Louvers shall be of the type and size as called for on ECDS04-751-01.
Thev shall be .ain proof, complete with screen and able to resist vibration
when air i issed through at rate of 500 CFM
3.3.5 Roof Curbs and Roof Hatches
3.3.5.1 Roof Curbs. For circular roof ventilators and other openings shall
be designed and sized for the support of gravity roof ventilators, roof
openings, such as hatches and duct work, as shown on ECDS04-751-01,
3.7.6 Doors
3.3,6.1 Hinged Doors. Doors and frames shall conform to RR-D-5
75 , size and
hardware as specified on ECDS04-751-01 Exterior doors shall ha'!e top
edges closed flush and sealed against water penetration, Hardware shall
conform to FF-H-106 , FF-H-116 , and FF-H-121 , as applicable to the types
specified,
3,3.6.2 Overhead Doors -hall be industrial type r'lling steal doors of
standard manufacture, fabricated to 20 galvanized sheet gauge steel cr
heavier. Accessories shall include galvanized steel track, door hood,
torsion-spring mechanism, cylinder lock and weathesstripping. Doors shall
be electric motor operated, suitable for 480-volt, 3-phaae power. Doors
are specified on ECDS04-751-01.
3.3,7 Windows shall be of steel sash sliding type, and the type shown on
ECDS04-751-01, complete with operating and locking hardware and glazing.
3.3.8 Insulation
3.3.8.1 General Requirements. Insulation shall be of sufficient thickness
to provide a coefficient of heat transmission (U-value), BTU per hcur, per
square foot, per degree F. temperature difference, through the completed
construction air-to-air, not in excess of 0.12 for walls and 0.15 for roof
when determined for winter conditions -" accordance with the ASHRAE Handbook
of Fundamentals. Insulation shall have a facing providing a permeability of
0.5 perm or less when tested in accordance with ASTM #96, Water Vapor Trans-
mission of Materials in Sheet Form. Facing shall be white, of reinforced
foil with a vinyl finish. Facings and finishes shall have a fleme spread
not in excess of 25 and a smoke developed rating not in excess of 50 when
tested in accordance with ASTM E84, Surface.Burning Characteristics of
Building Materials.
5
3.3.8.2 Blanket Insulation shall conform to HH-I-558, Form B, Type I,
Class 6. Exposed insulation for the roof shall have a white sheet vinyl
facing.
3.3.9 Wall Liners. Wall liners of the side walls of the main enclosure
shall be made of sculptured liner sheet of steel and shall be applied
with longitudinal configurations in the horizontal position. They shall
be fastened directely to outside wall covering without the use of sub-
girts (with blanket insulation sandwiched between them). Wall liner shall
be 27 galvanized sheet gauge or thicker of construction as specified under
paragraph 3.3.1.2, Materials.
Wall covering shall extend from the floor to elevation specified on
ECDS04-751-01. Matching trim shall be provided around openings in walls
and over interior and exterior and exterior corners. Where wall liners
are not required, the insulation shall be held in position with sub-girts
spaced as required but not more than 24" on center.
Wall liners in self-framing interior rooms as shown on ECDS04-751-02 shall
be 27 galvanized sheet gauge or thicker steel of composition specified
herein and formed or patterned to prevent waviness and distortion, and
shall extend from the floor to the ceiling. Matching metal trim shall be provided
at base of wall liner, top of wall liner, around openings in walls and roof
and over interior and exterior corners.
3.3.10 Sealant shall conform to NAAMK publication SS-la Non-Skinning Bulk
Sealing Compounds or SS-lc Non-Skinning, Non-Resilient Preformed Compounds,
as ipplicable for the specified joints.
3.3.11 Gaskets and Insulating Compounds shall be non-absorptive and suitable
for insulating contact points of incompatible materials. Insulating com-
pounds shall be non-running after drying.
3.3.12 Protective Coating. Ferrous surfaces shall be cleaned of oil, grease,
loose rust, loose mill scale, and other foreign substances and shop primed.
Primer coating shall be in accordance with the manufacturer's standard sys-
tem. Louvers, ventilator, curbs, roof hatch and doors shall be shop painted
in the manufacturer's standard color.
Wall covering and roof covering shall be color finished on both sides at
the factory. Surfaces shall be prepared for coating by thoroughly cleaning,
pretreating, and priming, to provide a film which is compatible with the
metal surface and the color finish. Color finish shall consist of a synthetic
resin base coating that has bean suitably plasticized and stabilized against
heat and light. Dry-film coating thickness of the color coat shall not be
less than 0.8 mil for exterior surface finish and not less than 0.5 mil for
interior surface finish. Colors shall be as selected from manufacturer's
standard colors.
6
3.3.13 EGMS and MCC Rooms, Motor control cen,'r and effl-er~t ga. moni-
toring system rooms shall be as shown on ECDS04-751-02o The design and
fabrication of the elements of these rooms shall conform to the kBMA
Standards.
3.4 Documentation
3.4.o Dangs. The covering and prefabricated rooms man a:.z-e• shall
prepare and Iurnish drawings and descriptive inf-rmatr'on wh-1n. will! :w-c•
porate the following:
A. Erection drawings showing all aspects of the cOjt -:tg maýteials,
such as siding, doors, roof curbs, grills, and othe- members
constituting the covering for this enclosure,
B. Erection and shop drawings for the EGMS ard MCC rccms zelf-framing
enclosures.
C. Catalog cuts, instruction manuals and cthez data nc: isary t: define
construction details, fasteners and e:e-:tucn cf a-! i!mfr::a atems
incorporated in the enclosure.
.7
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspection. Unless otherwise specified in the
contract, the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of all
inspection requirements as specified herein. The Purchaser reserves the
right to perform any of the inspections set forth in this specification where
such inspections are deemed necessary to assure material and services
conform to prescribed requirements. All work done by the manufacturer shall
be subject to inspection and acceptance by the Purchaser's inspector.
4.1.1 Pre-Acceptance Tests. The manufacturer shall submit for approval
of the Purchaser the follcwing samples and descriptive data:
Accessories - One sample o3 each type of flashing, trim, closures, caps
and similar items. Size shall be sufficient to show
construction and configuration.
Covering, Roof and Wall - One piece of each type to be used, 9 inches
long, full width. The sample shall be accompanied by
certified laboratory test reports showing that the
sheets to be furnished are produced under a ccntinuung
quality ccntrol program and that a representative sample
has been tested within the past 12 months and has met
the quality standards specified in paragraph 3.3.12,
Protective Ccating.
Fasteners - Two samples of each type to be used with statement regarding
intended use.
Insulation - One piece of each type to be used, and descriptive data
covering insulation.
Gaskets and Insulating Compounds - Descriptive data.
Sealant - One sample, apprcximately 1 pound, and descriptive data.
Wall Liner - One piece, 9 inches long, full width.
Windows, Doors, Louvers -Descriptive data for each if not fully covered
by shop drawings.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspection
4.2.1 General. All components shall be inspected to verify that the ma-
terials, construction, physical dimensions and workmanship conform to the
requirements as specified herein.
The manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of zequired
inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed by the Purchaser's
inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector shall not relieve the manu-
facturer from compliance with the requirements as specified herein.
8
Upon delivery, veriflcaticn of inspection of the components shall be con-
ducted at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delývery, and
acceptance shall be based upon compliance to the requizaments as specified
herein.
4.2.2 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of tha components to meet any of the
requirements and tests of this specification shall 'a considered cause
for rejection. All components that do not conform to this specification
may be reworked by the manufacturer utilizing -rework procedu7-e approved by
the Purchaser with no additional- cost to Purchasero
9
5.°0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by the
manufacturer to assure arrival at the site of components of the structure
in a dry and undamaged condition.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the manufacturer shall
be appropriately packaged in accordance with ccmmercial practica to insure
acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation and shall be delivered
F.O.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Axaa
Taoele, Utah 84074
MARK FOR, SURFACE COMBUSTION BB#4
10
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
PROCESS WATER HEAD TANK
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-32
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
DEAN J4 DIVEIV C. E. ROBINSON
Surface Combustion Division Contract Engineer
Surface Combustion Division
Surface Comb ti!n Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
Contract Project Officer
Edgewood Arsenal
DATED 17. 1975DA0IIIIiii
DATED DAO83 A1 e0g3-1
190 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for the design,
fabrication, painting, testing, acceptance and delivery of a process
water head tank complete with supports and accessories to be used in
the Deactivation Furnace.
2
2.0 APPLILE DOCUMETS
2.1 Non-Governent Documents. The following documents form a part of
this specification to the extent specified hereinq Unless otherwise
indicated, the issue in effect on the date of invitation to bid, or
request for proposal shall apply.
SPECIFICATIONS
ASME American Society of Mechanical Engineers
UBC Uniform Building Code
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. The process water tank D-671 specified herein shall
be constructed of carbon steel. The tank shall have a manhole and
all connections as shown in Section 10.1, Figure 1.
3.2 Characteristics
3.2.1 Performance. The process water tank shall be capable of con-
taining water having a specific gravity of 1.0 at pressures up to
14.9 pounds per square inch gauge (p.s.i.g.) and 40 inches water gauge
(in. wog.) vacuum, at temperatures from 50 to 180 degrees Fahrenheit
(*F.) without leaking. The tank shall be tested in accordance with
4.2.2.
3.2.2 Painting
3.2.2.1 Exterior. The manufacturer shall prepare the exterior sur-
face of the process water tank so that fabrication painting shall be
in accordance with the following:
a. Protect all machined surfaces during painting.
b. Painting shall be done in clean, dry, well-ventilated spaces.
The air temperature shall be between 600 F. and 900 F. or in accord-
ance with the paint manufacturer's instructions. Materials shall
be thoroughly mixed, and there shall be no settling or separation
of ingredients during painting. Unless otherwise specified, coatings
may be applied by any method that will insure the application of a
smooth, uniform, continuous film, free from dried overspray, runs,
sags, blisters, orange peel, or other imperfection. Freshly painted
material shall not be exposed to conditions that will harm the paint.
C. All exterior surfaces shall receive one (1) shop prime coat (Toledo
Paint Co, #29447, or approved equal, rust inhibiting tan primer).
Then a finish coat of Code II Aluminum-Rust-Oleum #1210, or approved
equal.
d. Prior to application, all mill scale, oil, foreign substances
and weld slag must be removed.
e. Filing, sanding, or other dressing operations shall not be done
on a part or assembly after it has been finish painted. Unless other-
wise specified, welding, soldering, or brazing shall not be permitted
on an assembly after it has been finish painted.
3.2.2.2 Interior. The manufacturer shall prepare the interior sur-
face of the process water tank so that the tank painting shall be
in accordance with the following;
a. Protect all machined surfaces during painting.
4
b. Painting shall be done in clean, dry, well-ventilated spaces. The.
air temperature shall be between 60e F. and 900 F. or in accordance with
the paint manufacturer's instructions. Materials shall be thoroughly
mixed, and there shall be no settling or separation of ingredients
during painting. Unless otherwise specified, coatings may be applied by
any method that will insure the application of smooth, uniforms continuous
film, free from dried overspray, runs, sags, blisters, orange peel, or
other imperfection. Freshly painted material shall not be exposed to
conditions that will harm the paint.
co Prior to application, all mill scale, oil, foreign substances and
weld slag must be removed. All surfaces shall be sandblasted to a white
metal blast finish with a maximum 1 1/2 mil profile,
d. All interior surfaces receive two (2) coats of Glidden Paint Co.
#5254 epoxy coal tar, or approved equal. Each coat shall have a dry
film thickness of 10 to 12 milso
eo Filing, sanding, other dressing operations shall not be done on apart or assembly after it has been finish painted. Unless otherwise
specified, welding, soldering, or brazing shall not be permitted on any
assembly after it has been finish painted.
3°3 Design and Construction, The process water tank specified
herein shall be designed and constructed to comply with established
industry standards and ASKE Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section
VIII, Division 1 which shall govern in all cases except that where
conflict is apparent, (Tank need not be stamped.) The tank and
supports shall be designed and constructed in accordance with seismic
loading considerations defined in the Uniform Building Code, 1973
Edition, Chapter 23,
3.3.1 Tank Shell, All clips, supports and brackets, that are welded to theinterior of the t shell shall be of the sOMa quality of material as thepart of the tank shell to which they are attachedg, unless otherwise specified
herein. Plate layouts shell be so arranged that openings, brackets or
other attae ts will not be welded to a plate joint. Exceptions to the
above are required in writing prior to approval, Unless otherwise specified
herein, plate Joint areas affected shall be X-rayed to prove soundness
afterwards to meet this specification,
3.3.2 Flanges, Fabricated steel flanges shall be used for manhole openings.Bolt holes ýn fabricated flanges shall be drilled or punched and shall straddle
no l centerlines, Burning of holes shall not be permitted,
5
3.3.2.1 Attachments inside or outside shall be seal welded, in addition to
strength welds, with a minimum of 1/8 inch throat. All longitudinal and
circumferential butt-joints shall be double-welded. (Single welded
butt-joints may be made with a backing strip only where double welded joints
cannot be made.)
3.3.2.2 Welding. All welders shall be qualified in accordance with ASME
Section IX.
3.3.3 Identification Marking. All nozzles or attaching interfaces shall be
securely tagged or otherwise permanently numbered in accordance with the
nozzle schedule shown in Section 10.1, Figure 1.
The manufacturer shall furnish and attach to the outside wall of the tank
a permanent, flush-mounted stainless steel name plate showing "CAMDS Specification
Number ECDS04-32".
3.3.4 Workmanship° The inside and outside of the water tank, including
brackets, shall be cleaned of weld spatter, slag, flux deposits, burrs and
splinters, loose mill scale, and all other foreign matter. All sharp corners
or edges shall be broken to prevent harm to persons coming into contact
with the unit.
6
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspections. Unless otherwise specified
in the contract, the manufacturer is responsible for the performance
of all inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as other-
wise specified, the manufacturer may utilize his own facilities or
any commercial laboratory acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser
reserves the right to perform any of the inspections set forth in the
specification where such inspections are deemed necessary to assure
supplies and services conform to prescribed requirments.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspections
4.2.1 General. Components of the process water head tank shall
be inspected to verify that the materials, construction, physical
dimensions and workmanship conform to the requirements as specified
herein.
The manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of
required inspections in order that such inspectins may be witnessed
by the Purchaser's inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector shall
not relieve the manufacturer from compliance with the requirements as
specified herieno
Upon delivery, verification of inspection of the equipment shall be
conducted at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delivery,
and acceptance shall be based upon compliance to the requirements
as specified herein.
4.2.2 Tests. The process water head tank shall be pneumatically
tested at 1 1/2 times the maximum allowable working pressure
(see 3.2.1) in accordance with ASME, Section VIII, Division 1,
Paragraph UG-1O. Duration of the leak test shall be a minimum
of four (4) hours.
Notes:
1. All openings shall be equipped with leaktight gaskets (using
blind flanges except at air entry).
2. The process water head tank shall be isolated from pressure
or vacuum source during test holding period.
3. All defects disclosed as a result of this testing shall be
remedied.
7
4. Tests must be repeated in case of failure or repair.
5. All repairs shall be made with new materials and no caulking of
screwed joints, holes or cracks will be acceptable.
4.2.3 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the process water head
tank to meet any of the requirements and tests of this specifi-
cation shall be considered cause for rejection. All equipment
that does not conform to this specification may be reworked by
the manufacturer utilizing rework procedures approved by the
Purchaser with no additional cost to Purchaser.
18
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by
the process water head tank manufacturer to assure arrival at the
plant site in proper operating condition with no refurbishing
needed before installation or use. The process water head tank shall
be as fully assembled as feasible for shipment. All parts shall
be carefully matchmarked for reassembly. All exposed finished
parts shall be safely crated and properly protected for shipment
as noted above. Preservatives shall be used to the extent necessary,
but shall be noted, with removal instructions included.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the process
water head tank manufacturer shall be appropriately packaged
in accordance with commercial practice to insure acceptance by
common carrier for safe transportation and shall be delivered
F.O.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, Utah 84074
Mark "For Surface Combustion BB#4"
9
10.0 APPENDIX
10.1 List of Figures
Figure No. Title
1 Nominal 1000 Gallon Head Tank
10
S2-0" 2'-o ,. -o" 6-6
(D -EXTEND OUTLET -
4 -2o} -ý l#. -
3S-6" MARK SIZE DESCRIPTION
I' '-S",_.,r-9" A 2" 2000 • FS. SCR'D. CPLG. OUTLET EOTTOM)
B 2" 2000 F ES SCRtD CPLG LEVEL CONTROL
I C 11/" 2000* FS SCR'D. CPLG. MAKE-UP WATER INLET
_-• D 24" MANHOLE W/COVERP BOLTS
E 3/4 2000 ES. SCR' D. CPLG. LEVEL GA.
SF 13/4 2000 *FS. SCR'D. CPLG. LEVEL GA.
G 2" 2000 *F.S. SCF(D. CPLG. VENT
H 2" 2000* ES. SCRD. CPLG OUTLET (SIDE)
J 2" 20004 F.S. SCF(D. CPLG TANK DRAIN
FIG, I
NOM. 1000 GALLON
HEAD TANK
D-671
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
CUSTOM FABRICATED STRUCTURAL WORK
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDSO4-33-A
REVISED BY: CONCURRENCE:
W. WILLIS A. A. KEEL 7
Surface Division Surface Division
FRANKLIN G. RINKER
Program Manager
Surface Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL
Contract Project Officer(
Edgewood Arsenal
DATED: July 28, 1975
REVISED DATE: March 28, 1977
ID 3 3IIIII DIIIIIIII4IIIIIIII f  
DA368884 DA01 6094-1
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification covers the requirements for the fabrication and
delivery of custom fabricated steel items for the Deactivation Furnace
System consisting of the scrubber tower columns, beams, walkways, stairs,
purlins, girts, bracing, struts and all members comprising the tower
structure. These items shall be furnished by this manufacturer and
delivered to job site for erection by others on a previously prepared
foundation.
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents. The following documents of the issue in
effect on the date of invitation for bid, or request for proposal, form
a part of this specification to the extent specified herein.
Specifications:
TT-P-57 Paint, Zinc Yellow-Iron Oxide Base, Ready-Mixed
TT-P-0086 Paint, Red-Lead-Base, Ready-Mixed
TT-P-615 Primer Coating: Basic Lead Silico Chromate, Ready Mixed
TT-P-645 Primer, Paint, Zinc-Chromate, Alkyd Type
Drawing:
ECDS04-753-01 (7 sheets): Enclosure - Structural Framing
2.2 Non-Government Documents. The following documents form a part of
this specification, to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise
indicated, the issue in effect on the date of invitation to bid, or
request for proposal, shall apply.
Specifications:
AISC American Institute of Steel Construction
NAAMM The National Association of Architectural Metal Manufacturers
Standards:
ASTM American Society for Testing and Materials
AWS American Welding Society
UBC Uniform Building Code
3
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. The custom fabricated structural work shall be shop
detailed and fabricated as shown on ECDS04-753-01.
3.2 Characteristics
3.2.1 The fabricated steel members comprising the overall frame of
the tower shall be proportioned with connection material, fasteners,
and fabricated in accordance with AISC Specification for the Design,
Fabrication and Erection of Structural Steel for Buildings.
3.2.2 The fabricated steel members comprising the overall frame of the
stairs, walkways, gratings and all other miscellaneous iron items shall
be designed and fabricated as per the applicable drawings which define
the sizes and locations of members and not necessarily the connection
material which shall be as per manufacturer's standard. This work shall
be performed as per the guidelines defined in the NAAMM publication,
latest issue.
3.2.3 Structural work shall withstand seismic loads applicable to Zone
3 as per the UBC Code, 1973 Edition.
3.2.4 Protective Coating. After fabrication, all steel shall have one
(1) prime and one (1) finish coat of paint conforming to TT-P-57, Type I;
TT-P-0086, Type I or II; TT-P-615, Type I, II, or V; or TT-P-645, and in
accordance with manufactprer's standard procedures.
3.3 Design and Construction
3.3.1 Fabrication: Structural steel work material shall be in accordance
with the applicable provisions of the AISC Specification. Fabrication
and assembly shall be done in the shop to the greatest extent possible.
Structural steel work, except surfaces of steel to be field welded,
shall be prepared for painting in accordance with AISC Specification
and primed with paint materials specified herein.
3.3.2 Materials. Structural steel shall conform to ASTM A36. Aluminum
shall not be used because of the caustic environment.
3.3.3 Weldings. All welding shall be in accordance with AWS Code Dl.l.
Certification that each welder is qualified in accordance with AWS Code
D1.1 shall be provided. Any welder shall be retested and recertified
when the work of the welder creates a reasonable doubt as to his pro-
ficiency. Tests, when required, shall be conducted at no additional
expense to the Purchaser. Recertification of the welder shall be sub-
mitted only after the welder has taken and passed the required retest.
4
3.3.4 Workmanship. The manufacturer shall be responsible for all errors
of detailing, fabrication and for the correct fitting of the structural
members.
3.4 Documentation
3.4.1 Drawings. The fabricated steel manufacturer shall prepare and
furnish design and erection shop drawings showing location, sizes and
construction details of all the members that constitute the structural
framing for the steel involved.
3.4.2 Certification. Certified copies of mill test reports including
names and locations of mills and shops shall be furnished for all structural
steel.
5
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS
4.1 Responsibility for Inspection. Unless otherwise specified in the
contract, the manufacturer is responsible for the performance of all in-
spection requirements as specified herein. The Purchaser reserves the
right to perform any of the inspections set forth in this specification
where such inspections are deemed necessary to assure material and
services conform to prescribed requirements. All work done by the
manufacturer shall be subject to inspection and acceptance by the Pur-
chaser's inspector.
4.2 Quality Conformance Inspection
4.2.1 General. Components of fabricated steel shall be inspected to
verify that the materials, construction, physical dimensions and workman-
ship conform to the requirements as specified herein.
The manufacturer shall notify the Purchaser prior to performance of
required inspections in order that such inspections may be witnessed
by the Purchaser's inspector. Approval by the Purchaser's inspector
shall not relieve the manufacturer from compliance with the requirements
as specified herein.
Upon delivery, verification of inspection of the steel components shall
be conducted at the Purchaser's plant or specified point of delivery,
and acceptance shall be based upon compliance to the requirements as
specified herein.
4.2.2 Acceptance/Rejection. Failure of the steel components to meet
any of the requirements and tests of this specification shall be considered
cause for rejection. All components that do not conform to this specifi-
cation may be reworked by the manufacturer utilizing rework procedures
approved by the Purchaser with no additional cost to Purchaser.
6
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided by
manufacturer to assure arrival at the site of components of the structure
in a dry and undamaged condition.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the manufacturer
shall be appropriately packaged in accordance with commercial practice
to insure acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation and shall
be delivered F.O.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, Utah 84074
MAEK FOR: SURFACE DIVISION BB#4
7
6.0 NOTES
6.1 The margins of this specification are marked with a vertical line
to indicate where changes (additions, modifications, corrections, deletions)
from the previous issue were made. This was done as a convenience only
and the Government assumes no liability whatsoever for any inaccuracies
in these notations. Bidders and contractors are cautioned to evaluate
the requirements of this document based on the entire content irrespective
of the marginal notation and relationship to the last previous issue.
8
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
SPARE RETORT SECTIONS FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
SPECIFICATION NO. ECDS04-54
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCE:
q4, . BRANCHa
P. M. ECKSTROM •AmDs A. A. KEEL"
Surface Division Surface Division
./tRANKLIN G. O IkER
Surface Division
TECHNICAL APPROVAL:
DATED
IFmOR A P"'PR110VA L
CUSTWP&R J~E R
DATE -BY 1"IIH-
SURFACE COMBUSTION IIII1111111111111 II Ii
DA358385 DA016096-1
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements for design, test,
manufacture, acceptance and delivery of two (2) retort sections complete
with all charts or graphs, and accessories described herein. The retort
sections will be used in a rotary kiln for the deactivation of explo-
sives from munitions at operating temp*eratures of 6000 F. to 15500 F.,
and in an oxidizing atmosphere. The kiln is subject to the detonations
of the explosives.
APR 4 1977
2
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
2.1 Government Documents: The following documents of the issue in
effect on the date of invitation for bids or request for proposal form
a part of this specification to the extent specified herein.
Specifications:
MIL-E-6844 Electrodes; Welding, Corrosion and Heat Resistant Alloys
MIL-R-5031 Rods; Welding, Corrosion and Heat Resistant Alloys
Drawings:
ECDS04-350-01 Retort Assembly
ECDS04-350-03 Retort Details
Other Publications:
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Act
2.2 Non-Government Documents:
ASTM American Society of Testing Materials, Standards
ASME American Society of Mechanical Engineers
APR 4•1977
3
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General. The retort sections specified herein shall be in accor-
dance with this specification and the drawing(s) listed, which describe
a conveying means comprised of four (4) segments,-which, when bolted
together through their flanged ends, form a cylindrical barrel with
internal, integrally cast flights forming a continuous spiral. Operating
temperatures within this kiln will range from 6000 F. to 15000 F., in
an oxidizing atmosphere, and when rotated mechanically, will convey and
tumble the munitions. One retort section shall be cast of ASTM A-351
(HK40), the other retort section shall be cast of ASTM A-297 (HF), and
shall reflect best industry practice, but in no instance shall any such
practice interfere with the functional purpose as described herein, or
the durability, operation, or safety aspects of the end product duty.
3.2 Characteristics.
3.2.1 Environmental Conditions. The retort sections will be subject
to temperatures of 6000 F. to 15000 F. and simultaneously to. an oxidizing
atmosphere containing low amounts of S02 , HCl, HF, P205 , lead oxide and
lead phosphate.
3.2.2 Transportability. The retort sections shall be so arranged and
matchmarked as to be easily disassembled for replacement of parts or
for shipment to another site and reassembled.
3.3 Design and Construction. The design and construction of retort
sections shall be the responsibility of the vendor in accordance with
the requirements specified herein.
3.3.1 Materials. One retort section shall be assembled of castings
of a heat and corrosion resistant high alloy steel ASTM A-351 (HK40)
unless otherwise specified. The other retort section shall be assembled
of castings of a heat and corrosion resistant high alloy steel ASTM
A-297 (HF) with the following modified composition: Carbon .25% to
.35%, Chromium: 19% to 21%, Nickel: 10.5% to 12% which must retain
structural integrity shape and squareness under conditions of alternate
heating and cooling. The material used in manufacture shall be in
accordance with those specified-in the drawings which are part'of this
specification: ECDS04-350-01 and ECDS04-350-03.
3.3.2 Retort Shell. The retort shell shall .be cast, as specified,
with flights cast integrally. The end faces shall be machined. The
retort shall be made up of bolted sections which permit the capability
of replacement.
APR 4 1977
4
3.3.3 Flanges. Flanges shall be either cast or fabricated of wrought
material of compatible alloy grade to permit welding to shell; however,
in either instance they shall be welded onto the retort sections as
shown on ECDS04-350-01 and ECDS04-350-03. Flanges shall be machined
after welding and jig drilled as shown on drawings ECDSO4-350-01 and
ECDS04-350-03.
3.3.4 Welding.
3.3.4.1 Filler Metal. Welding rods, welding wire, and electrodes
used in the welding of steels and corrosion and heat resistant alloys
shall be capable of producing satisfactory welds when used by a certi-
fied welding operator with satisfactory welding apparatus, and shall
have a composition suitable for producing welds conforming to the
requirements specified herein. Coated electrodes used for welding
corrosion or heat resistant alloys shall conform to Military Speci-
fication MIL-E-6844. Rods used for welding corrosion or heat resistant
alloys shall conform to Military Specification MIL-R-5031. The class
of filler metal employed shall be compatible with the base metal in
maintaining the mechanical properties and corrosion resistance of the
base metal.
3.3.4.2 Joint Design. Joint design shall be in accordance with ASME
Section VIII, Division 1, Article UW-18, Fillet Welds.
3.3.4.3 Preparation of Surfaces. Surfaces to be welded shall be free
from grease or other foreign matter and shall be as free as possible
from rust and protective coatings. Cleaning with a. wire brush or
abrasive paper may be used for removing rust and protective coatings.
Where a wire brush is used it is recommended that its composition,
insofar as practicable, be similar to the composition of the material
being welded..
3.3.4.4 Soundness. Vendor shall conduct any necessary tests required
to qualify or requalify the welding equipment and/or each welding opera-
tor in accordance with the specification referenced in Section IX of
ASME and utilize only the qualified welding equipment and qualified
welding operators in. performing and welding on this contract.
3.3.5 Attachments. Sections of the retort shall be bolted together
as shown on ECDS04-350-Ol, using high strength and high temperature
bolts and nuts, with load indicating washers/and lock washers.
3.3.6 Workmanship. The casting shall be free of warp, blow holes,
sinks, pitting, or other surface defects; (occasional fills and minor
repairs may be made to new castings if repair results in meeting this
specification in all respects). Failure of a repaired section will
be the total responsibility of the manufacturer..
APR 4 1977
5
3.3.6.1 All defects shall be repaired after cleaning, using welding
rod material of equal or greater alloy quality than the parent metal.
Flange bolt hole locations must be met to assure match configuration
of retort sections.
3.3.7 Marking. The vendor will be required either to stamp or weld
a serial number and year of manufacture on each retort section -in
addition to matchmarks. The patterns and templates also will be marked
with a serial number.
3.3.8 Safety. The design and fabrication as well as method of opera-
tion shall be in total compliance with all current O.S.H.A., federal,
state, and local codes, laws, ordinances, etc.
3.3.9 Construction.
3.3.9.1 The vendor shall be required to use a vertical mold. Molding
setup will be subject to certification or acceptance by Purchaser's
inspector.
3.3.9.2 The vendor shall be required to provide adequate chills. for
the spiral flights.
3.3.9.3 The vendor shall be required to smooth the internal surface
of the retort, using a tumbling technique.
3.3.9.4 The vendor shall be required to remove all chaplets. The
retort will be inspected for removal of chaplets and certified for
acceptance by Purchaser's inspector.
APR 4 177
6
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE
4.1 Inspection.
4.1.1 Responsibility for Inspection. Unless otherwise specified in
the contract or order, the vendor is responsible for the performance
of all inspection requirements as specified herein. Except as.other-
wise specified, the vendor may utilize his own facilities or any
commercial laboratory acceptable to the Purchaser. The Purchaser
reserves the right to perform any of the inspections set forth in the
specification where such inspections are deemed necessary to assure
supplies and services conform to prescribed requirements.
4.1.2 The vendor shall be required to perform a boroscopic inspection
of the internal surface of the retort to identify any flaws such as,
but not limited to, flashings, frozen chills, cracks, hot tears and
unremoved chaplets. This inspection will be subject to certification
or acceptance-by Purchaser's inspector. Any deficiencies will be
noted and corrected by the vendor and subjected again to inspection.
4.1.2.1 The vendor shall employ X-ray techniques for examination of
visual hot tears to determine the extent of the defect, and to prescribe
repair technique and approach.
4.1.2.2 Rdpaired hot tear defects shall be subjected to X-ray if
needed to comply with the requirements specified herein. Repair pro-
cedures which require welding shall be approved by the Purchaser's
Quality Assurance Department, prior to the implementation of any
such repairs.
4.1.2.3 Purchaser's inspector will determine that the retort dimen-
sions are within tolerances set forth on the Drawing No. ECDS04-350-02.
4.1.2.4 Purchaser's inspector will determine that retort sections
have been matched, and appropriately marked.
4.2 Chemical Analysis.
4.2.1 The vendor shall be required to furnish a certified chemical
analysis of the material used in casting of the retort to assure com-
pliance with paragraph 3.3.1.
4.2.2 The vendor shall be required to supply four test specimens,
one from each pouring of the heat, for verification of chemical analysis.
APR 4 1977
7
4.3 Physical Properties.
4.3.1 The vendor shall be required to prepare 3 test specimens from
each pouring of heat in accordance with ASTM Method A370. Test bars
shall be poured in special blocks from the same heat as the castings
represented.
4.3.2 Tensile tests.shall be performed on one specimen from each
heat. These tests shall be performed in accordance with ASTM Method
A370. The tensile properties of alloy used for the castings shall
comply with paragraph 3.3.1. The vendor shall furnish a certified
record of the tensile tests.
APR 1977
8
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 General. Before shipment, the retort shall be cleaned and pre-
pared as prescribed in the vendor's shop procedures. Machined ends
shall be suitably covered with plywood. to protect against damage
during shipping. Suitable protective coverings shall be provided
by the manufacturer to assure arrival at the plant site in proper
operating condition with no refurbishing needed before use. The
sections of retort need not be fully assembled for shipment.
Unless otherwise stated above, all material shipped by the supplier
shall be appropriately identified and packaged in accordance with
commercial practice to insure acceptance by common carrier for safe
transportation and shall be delivered F.O.B. to:
Tooele Army Depot
South Area
Tooele, Utah 84074
MARK FOR: SURFACE DIVISION BB#4
APR 4 1971
9
6.0 NOTES
6.1 All new patterns and templates developed as a result of this
specification shall become the property of the Purchaser.
APR 4 1977
10
SPECIFICATION
FOR
INCINERATOR SYSTEM
SPECIFICATION
NO. 04-55
22 DECEMBER 1981
PAUL LURK
CHEMICAL AGENT/ MUNITIONS DISPOSAL SSE'
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
IllDA I5 lll8lll 16lllll I96-1
DA358386 DA01 8096-1
CAMDS Specification
Number 04-55
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
SPECIFICATION FOR
INCINERATOR SYSTEM
22 DECEMBER 1981
PREPARED BY: CONCURRENCES:
PAUL LURK 96HN BEAGLEY
Chemical Engineer Chief, Documentation Branch
--;TIM 300TH CHARLES WARNECKE
Mechanical Eng. Technician Chief, Engineering Branch
ALNDOBSON JOHN CLUFF,
Equipment Specialist Chief, Engtieering Division
APPROVED BY:
AS PAULICAMDS
Direcc for CAMDS
SPECIFICATION
FOR
INCINERATOR SYSTEM
NO. 04-55
22 DECEMBER 1981
1.0 INTRODUCTION.
1.1 This specification establishes the design, performance and dimen-
sional requirements for the Deactivation Furnace (DFS) Incinerator.
1.2 The purpose of this specification is to obtain proposals for the
design, fabrication and installation of the incinerator.
1.3 The purpose of this incinerator will be to burn Type-O waste,
which will include wood and polyethylene (DPE) suits.
1.4 The incinerator will be connected to the existing Deactivation
Furnace Scrubber System.
2.0 REFERENCE DOCUMENTS.
2.1 The following documents and drawings will serve as a guide to the
design requirements:
a. Instruction manual for Wasteco CR-750 incinerator contract No.
DAAAI5-71-C-0368 (This company has gone out of business.) Obtain manual from
CAMDS Engineering Division, Tooele Army Depot.
b. Deactivation Furnace System drawing package. Obtain from CAMDS
Engineering Division, Tooele Army Depot.
3.0 PURPOSE.
3.1 The DFS incinerator will be used to burn contaminated and non-
contaminated wood dunnage generated from the processing of chemical agent
munitions.
3.2 The incinerator will also be used to burn the Disposable Protective
Ensemble (DPE) suit. This consists of a protective suit used in the toxic areas
of the CAMDS plant.
4.0 DESIGN DATA.
4.1 The incinerator will be designed to accept wooden dunnage approxima-
tely 1'-0" high X 4'-00 wide X 8'-00 long. This will consist of 2" X 4", 4" X
4", 2" X 6", 2" X 8" pine and plywood. The size of the fire box will be
4'-0" X 4'-O" X 8'-0" and allow a fork lift to stack the dunnage inside.
Approximately 3000 lb. of dunnage is generated each week.
4.2 The incinerator will be designed to burn DPE suits. These suits are
made of vinyl sheeting and alloyed chlorinated polyethylene film. The suits are
fed into the furnace in a plastic bag containing two suits. This filled bag
weighs approximately 40 lb. and is three cubic feet. Approximately forty suits
are generated each week.
4.3 The new incinerator will be connected to the existing Deactivation
Furnace Scrubbing System, and will only operate when the furnace is running in
its idle condition. The furnace draft under normal operating conditions is
7252 ACFM. The furnace draft, when the furnace is in its idle condition is 5458
ACFM. The difference between the two drafts is 1794 ACFM. The new incinerator
will be designed with a draft below 1794 ACFM. These drafts were measured bet-
ween the cyclone separator and the afterburner. This is the location that the
new incinerator exhaust will enter the existing scrubber system.
4.4 The incinerator will be installed approximately as shown on drawing
TCDS 04-904-02. This requires modifications to the existing structure. This
modification will not be part of this proposal. If there is a requirement for
additional space, indicate so in the proposal. The width of the building is
limited to the size shown.
4.5 The fuel for the incinerator will be number two fuel oil.
5.0 CONTRACTOR SUPPLIED MATERIAL.
5.1 The contractor will be required to furnish and install a complete and
operable incinerator and related piping and controls that meets the design
requirements as described above. The contractor will be required to furnish,
install and test the following:
a. A complete and operable incinerator capable of burning Type 0
wastes as described in Section 4. This will include all appropriate controls,
piping and electrical wiring.
b. Appropriate ducting to connect the incinerator to the existing
afterburner inlet duct. This will include draft control dampers both in the
incinerator duct and the existing duct to the afterburner. Draft control dam-
Pers will include all controls, actuators and related hardware.
c. A complete fuel oil system with all pumps, filters, valves and
controls.
2
SPECIFICATION FOR
INSULATION STUDY OF DEACTIVATION
FURNACE EXHAUST SYSTEM
1.0 INTRODUCTION
This specification outlines a task to study the effects of
adding insulation to the Deactivation Furnace System (DFS). The
particulate in the retort exhaust must be detoxified before it is
collected in the cyclone. Temperatures under current conditions
may not be adequate to detoxify the exhaust particulate. Insulation
of the retort, blast attenuator, and cyclone collector may raise
the temperature in the exhaust system enough to detoxify the
particulate.
2.0 DESIRED RESULTS OF INSULATION
The DFS retort, blast attenuator, and cyclone collector insul-
ation should enable the system to maintain maximum exhaust tempera-
tures throughout the system. The maximum exhaust temperature will be
defined as the maximum temperature that the equipment can safely
withstand under worst operating conditions.
2.1 The most important result of insulation will be to assure
detoxification of exhaust particulate before it settles in the cyclone
drum. The operation of the M55 rocket line would be greatly complicated
with contaminated drums of particulate.
2.2 The insulation will also improve the afterburner performance.
Insulation will keep the effluent gas temperature at a higher level.
This increased temperature will enable the aftetburner to maintain
the desired temperature of 1600 F without as much concern about
the air flow rate. The afterburner wouldn't have to be operated in
the "high fire" condition. This would reduce the fuel consumption
as well as the amount of carbonate generated.
2.3 The insulation will make the cyclone and afterburner enclosure
more comfortable. The enclosure will be maintained at a cooler
temperature because the insulation will contain much more heat in the
duct.
2.4 The thermal stresses will be reduced with insulation. This will
be especially noticeable when the DFS is shut down. The new procedure
of shut down has been to turn off the I.D. fan and dampers at the
same time that the burners are turned off. This procedure provides a
very slow cool down. Insulation will contain the heat in the system
for even a longer period of time.
3.0 SCOPE Of WORK
The task described in this specification will examine conditions
as they exist now. The task will also study the results of insulating
DA358388 DA01 6098-1
the DFS retort, blast attenuator, and cyclone collector. It will
include suggesting insulation requirements for the DFS.
3.1 This task will summarize the present operating conditions.
Evaluation of the detoxification capability of the present system
will be included. This will require examining the particulate
temperature exposure from the retort to the cyclone collector.
3.2 The impact to the entire DFS caused by the added insulation
will be examined. This will include suggesting additional controls
if needed. Any problem areas caused by the insulation will be
addressed. Thermal stresses due to insulation of the retort, blast
attenuator, and cyclone collector will be studied. These stresses
should be compared with those experience now during heat up, steady
state, and cool down. The particulate temperature exposure will be
predicted for conditions following insulation. This information
will be used to predict the detoxification capablitby of the DFS
following insulation. Fuel savings with the insulation will be
calculated'.
3.3 This study will be summarized in a report. The report will
include sketches and calculations. A solution based on the con-
clusions of this study should be part of this report. The amount of
insulation in each area of the retort, blast attenuator, and cyclone
collector will be provided. The report will also suggest things
to check during an insulation performance test. The report con-
clusions will be discussed in a meeting at CAMDS.
4.0 SCHEDULE
28 July 1978 - Report submitted to CAMDS
10 Aug 1978 - Meeting with Midland-Ross at CAMDS
2
Iof
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE SYSTEM CONTROLS MODERNIZATION
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-58
11 APRIL 1984
DENNIS BODRERO
CHEMICAL AGENVMUNITIONS DISPOSAL SYSTE•j,
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
DA358389 DA018099-1
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE SYSTEM CONTROLS MODERNIZATION
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-58
APRIL 11, 1984
DENNIS BODRERO
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITIONS DISPOSAL SYSTEM
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
ii
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE SYSTEM CONTROLS MODERNIZATION
SPECIFICATION NUMBER 04-58
PREPARED BY
DENNIS BODRERO
CONCURRENCES:
GLENN ROBERTS
Mechanical Engineer Chief, Engineering Branch
STEVEN V. NIELSON CHARLES WARNECKE
Actg Chief, Documen on Br. Chief, Plan s Dvision
L. DOU4LAS PIERCE
Engineer for Technical Operations Chief, PR & Data Analysis Branch
APPROVED BY:
ief, JOEnneerig D iiion
iii
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE SYSTEM CONTROLS MODERNIZATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
1. SCOPE 1
2. APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS 1
3. REQUIREMENTS 2
4. QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS 4
5. PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY 4
6. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 4
iv
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE SYSTEM CONTROLS MODERNIZATION
1. SCOPE.
1.1 The Deactivation Furnace System (DFS) is part of the Chemical Agent
Munitions Disposal System (CAMDS) Plant located at the South Area of Tooele Army
Depot (TEAD). The DFS was designed and built in the mid 1970's. The Control
systems used consisted of, a programmable controller, relay panels, conventional
analog loop controllers, and conventional control panels. Because CAMDS is a
test facility, more flexibility is needed in operating the DFS than is currently
available with the present control system. This specification defines the
requirements for the design and installation of a control system modification by
a contractor. The control system will use a later generation programmable
controller and color Cathode Ray Tube (CRT) graphics control system furnished by
the government. The contractor will furnish a new flame safeguard system, engi-
neering design, and installation services as outlined in this specification.
The control system will operate the DFS in essentially the same manner as before
but with increased information reporting capability and operating flexibility.
2. APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS.
2.1 The following drawings and other documentation will be furnished to the
contractor by the government.
DRAWING NO. TITLE
04-100-01 Equipment Layout Plan Assembly
04-150-01 Air Pollution Control P&I
04-151-01 Process Water Design Flow Diagram
04-151-02 DFS Seal Water Flow Diagram
04-152-01 Heating & Cooling Design Flow Diagram
04-152-02 Ventilation Design Flow Diagram
04-153-01 Compressed Air P&ID
04-155-01 Fuel Oil & Combustion Air P&I
04-156-01 Lubrication P&I
04-170-01 Propane Piping Flow Diagram
04-540-08 12 sheets New PLC Layout
04-553-01 Power and Distribution Plan
04-555-02 7 sheets Process Control Interconnection & Wiring
04-561-01 Pollution Control Block Diagram
04-563-01 8 sheets Instrument Elementary Schematic Wiring Diagram
04-564-01 6 sheets Alarm & Control Elementary Wiring Diagram
04-566-01 3 sheets Burner Control Elementary Wiring Diagram
04-566-05 Aux Burner Panel Wiring Diagram
04-570-01 Instrumentation Block Diagram
Existing PLC Program with cross references.
2.2 APPLICABLE STANDARDS
National Fire Protection Agency
National Electrical Code
Underwriters Laboratory Approval
Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) Standards
3. REQUIREMENTS
3.1 Work to be done by the government. The following activities will be done
by government personnel in support of the control system modification and
installation.
3.1.1 The control panels located in the Control Room with interconnecting
cabling to the DFS will be removed.
3.1.2 The existing PLC will be removed.
3.1.3 The new Allen Bradley PLC 2/30 will be installed in the DFS.
3.1.4 The Process Control Industries Model D 1230 Graphics Control System with
Interconnecting Allen-Bradley Data Hiway will be installed.
3.2 New Control System Design. The contractor will perform the following tasks
during the design phase of this project.
3.2.1 The burner control and flame safeguard system will be redesigned. This
will include the following activities.
3.2.1.1 Procure a new Honeywell BC7000 series flame safeguard system for each
of the four burners.
3.2.1.2 Redesign the existing flame safeguard cabinet to accomodate the new
equipment or design and procure a new cabinet.
3.2.1.3 Design wiring changes and include any new valves required to make each
burner operated independently.
3.2.1.4 Move all control logic that is allowed by burner safety codes from the
burner control panel to the PLC.
2
3.2.1.5 Design automatic burner startup and shut down sequences with
appropriate set point ramping controlled by the PLC.
3.2.1.6 Design a system for hot burner restart to accomodate burner failure
during operation.
3.2.1.7 Additional signals from the ultra violet flame detectors will be added
to the control scheme in the PLC and monitored for stability.
3.2.1.8 Procure and install new actuators and associated hardware on all PID
Control Loops, if required, that are compatible with the Allen-Bradley PLC.
3.2.2 New wiring drawings will be made to show connections to the new PLC.
This will include assignment of input/output (I/O) points and include all new I/O
to the PLC.
3.2.3 System graphic layouts will be designed to be used by operators in
running the DFS. This will include overview graphics and subsystem graphics to
start, stop, operate, troubleshoot, and manually control the DFS. Initiating
control and manual functions by locating the particular function on the CRT
screen with the cursor will be used where practical.
3.2.4 The graphics control system will be programmed to include the standard
point, loop, annunciator and overview displays as well as the control graphics
described above. This will be coordinated with the PLC program.
3.2.5 The new PLC program will be written. This program will incorporate the
following features.
3.2.5.1 All of the operating logic included in the present PLC program will be
included.
3.2.5.2 All of the functions now done by the "Alarm and Control" panel will be
incorporated into the PLC program and operated from the graphics terminal.
3.2.5.3 All of the control loops and functions now done by the "Instrument"
panel will be incorporated into the PLC and operated from the graphics ter-
minal.
3.2.5.4 The burner control system will be incorporated into the PLC program and
operated from the graphics terminal as outlined above.
3.2.5.5 The program will be flexible to allow simple modification of heatup
rates, setpoints and other parameters which could vary during DFS operation.
3.2.5.6 The programming will include a method to transmit alarms and other data
which is printed out on the graphics system printer over the data highway to the
CAMDS Hewlett-Packard 1000 Series Supervisory Computer. A method to transmit
other data such as temperatures, pressures etc., to the supervisory computer
will also be incorporated. Data transmitted to HP computer must be programmed
to meet requirements of the Data Collection system currently in plan.
3
3.2.5.7 Trending will be used to display all functions now being displayed by
recorders.
3.2.5.8 The XYCOM Ladder Diagram Translater System installed at CAMDS
Engineering Division will be available for use by the contractor.
3.3 Modified control system installation and startup. The following on site
installation activities will be done by the contractor.
3.3.1 Install PLC and graphics programs on the respective hardware.
3.3.2 Install new burner flame safeguard system and other hardware.
3.3.3 Install new wiring and connection to the PLC I/O interface.
3.3.4 Provide 200 manhours of technical assistance during startup of the new
control system.
3.4 Schedule Requirements. Work must be completed to be able to begin the DFS
startup by 1 Oct 1984.
4. QUALITY ASSURANCE PROVISIONS.
4.1 All design drawings, modifications, and programming must be submitted to
and approved by CAMDS Engineering Division prior to installation.
4.2 All work must be in accordance with required standards, and must be accep-
table to the government QA personnel.
4.3 Prior to final acceptance the contractor shall operate all installed equip-
ment, demonstrating to the satisfaction of the government representatives that
the equipment operates as designed and meets the requirements of this specifi-
cation. Failure to do so shall be cause for rejection of the system.
5. PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY.
5.1 All items to be installed by the contractor will conform to applicable
standards.
6. NOTES.
6.1 Personnel requirements for working at the South Area. All contractor per-
sonnel working at CAMDS must be U.S. Citizens and obtain badges and entrance
authorization from TEAD Security. All personnel must be clean shaven and be
fitted with a protective gas mask. Personnel must be escorted while in the
CAMDS plant and comply with all security regulations. Personnel working in the
CAMDS plant during testing must have two blood samples taken to establish a cho-
linesterase baseline.
7. Deliverables. The following deliverables will be submitted to the govern-
ment in performance of this contract:
7.1 A weekly design reviewmeeting not to exceed four hours in length will be
held between the contractor and CAMDS Engineering Division at TEAD South Area.
4
7.2 PLC connection drawings must be submitted to and approved by CAMDS
Engineering Division prior to the contractor starting any wiring work.
Reproducable drawings will be made on CAMDS supplied Mylar originals.
7.3 The following documentation will be submitted prior to system startup.
7.3.1 Listings and documentation of all PLC and graphics programs.
7.3.2 Control System operating manual, 3 copies.
7.3.3 Control System maintenance manual, 3 copies.
7.4 Conduct an onsite operations and maintenance class to government personnel.
This class should include 40 hours of instruction including "hands on"
experience.
8. Information to be submitted with the proposal.
8.1 The following information will be submitted in response to this proposal.
8.1.1 Two fixed price costs for the design and installation phases of the pro-
ject. Each cost is to be broken down to show equipment cost and the number of
manhours anticipated to be spent by the various disciplines involved.
8.1.2 A proposed schedule showing how the contractor intends to accomplish the
work.
8.1.3 A statement of the number and types of personnel available to work on the
project with resume's of key personnel.
8.1.4 A statement outlining the experience of the company and a description of
similar jobs which have been done using this or similar control hardware and
software.
5
9. EVALUATION OF PROPOSALS
9.1 The following plan will be used when evaluating the proposals.
9.1.1 An initial evaluation of the proposals will be made according to the eva-
luation fractors listed in Section 8.2.
9.1.2 Competitive Range: The Contracting Officer will make the determination
as to which proposals are in the "Competitive Range." The competitive range
will be determined on the bases of the merit ratings and the proposed COST
(including realistic considerations) to the Government and will include all propo-
sals which have a reasonable chance of being selected for award. The initial
number of proposals considred as being within the competitive range may be
reduced when, as a result of the written or oral discussions, any such proposal
has been determined to no longer have a reasonable chance of being selected for
award.
9.1.3 Discussion/Best and Final Proposals: The offerors selected to par-
ticipate in discussions will be advised of deficiencies in their proposals and
will be offered a reasonable opportunity to correct or resolve the deficiencies
and to submitt such price or cost, technical, or other revisions to their propo-
sals that may result from the discussions. At the conclusion of discussions, a
final common cut-off date which allows a reasonable opportunity for submission
of written "best and final" proposals will be established and those selected to
remain in the competitive range will be notified to submit best and final propo-
sals.
9.1.4 Final Evaluation of Proposals: The initial evaluation of the proposals
within the Competitive Range may be revised in light of any additional
information/data provide during subsequent discussion and/or furnsihed with
"Best and Final" proposal.
9.1.5 Basis for award of a contract(s) as a result of this Request for
Proposals (RFP) will be an integrated assessment by the Contracting Officer of
the evaluation of the factors set forth giving due consideration to the relative
order of importance indicated in 8.2. Ultimately, the source selection decision
will take into account the contractor's capability to meet the requirements of
this solicitation on a timely and cost effective basis. The Government reserves
the right of such flexibility in evaluation as is necessary to assure placement
of the contract in its best interest. Accordingly, the Government may award
any resulting contracting to other than the lowest priced offeror, or other than
the offeror with the highest merit rating.
9.2 Evaluation Criteria. The evaluation of the proposals will be based on the
following criteria.
9.2.1 Experience
Offeror has had experience with Allen-Bradley PLC's and Process Control
Industries Inc. Graphics Control Systems. 25 Points.
Offeror has had experience with Allen-Bradley PLC's and other Graphics
Control Systems. 15 Points.
Offeror has had experience with other manufactors PLC's and Graphics
Control Systems. 10 Points.
Offeror has had limited experience with PLC's and Graphics Control
Systems. 5 Points.
9.2.2 Ability to meet required schedule up to 20 points will be awarded based
on the qualifications and number of personnel available to work on the project.
9.2.3 Cost. Maximum of 10 points. Offerors ability to meet or reduce expected
cost to government. Ten points will be given to the lowest bid and points will
be assigned on a proporational basis to other bids.
6
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE BUILDING
REPLACE TOWER ROOF
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-62
RON PAYEUR
6 MARCH 1988
CHEMICAL AGENT/MUNITIONS DPO SYSTEM
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
DA358390 DA01 6100-1
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE BUILDING
REPLACE TOWER ROOF
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-62
RON PAYEUR
6 MARCH 1988
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
ii
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE BUILDING
REPLACE TOWER ROOF
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-62
PREPARED BY:
RON PAYEUR
Chemical Engineer
CONCURRED BY:
SEf V. ENNEH L. NORRIS
Chief, Documentation Branch Actg. Chief, Plants Division
%ROY G. NISKALA
Chief, Thermal, Chem. & Fac. Branch
APPROVED BY:
Chief, Engineering Division
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE BUILDING
REPLACE TOWER ROOF
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-62
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
1. SCOPE 1
2. APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS 1
3. REQUIREMENTS 2
4. QUALITY ASSURANCE 3
5. PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY 4
6. NOTES 4
iv
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE BUILDING
REPLACE TOWER ROOF
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-62
1.0 SCOPE.
1.1 This specification defines the requirements for replacing the Deactivation
Furnace System (DFS) tower roof, plus the tasks of relocating the speaker tower
and constructing a walkway on the roof. The tower section houses the DFS Pollu-
tion Abatement System (PAS) located at the Chemical Agent Munitions Disposal
System (CAMDS) Site, South Area, Tooele Army Depot.
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS.
2.1 Documents: The installation and materials for this specification shall be
in accordance with, but not limited to, the following standards and codes:
2.1.1 ANSI A10.18-83 Roofs, Construction and Demolition
2.1.2 ASTM A361/A361M-85 Galvanized Steel Sheet for Roofing
2.1.3 ASTM A755-83 Galvanized Steel Sheet for Roofing
2.1.4 ASTM E695-79 Roof Resistance to Impact Loading
2.1.5 ASTM 1227-82 Emulsified Asphalt
2.1.6 UL 580-80 Roof Assembly Uplift Resistance
2.1.7 UL 997-81 Roof Covering Material Wind Resistance
2.1.8 NFPA 203m-87 Roof Covering Manual
2.1.9 NFPA 256-87 Roof Covering Fire Tests
2.2 Drawings:
2.2.1 Enclosure:
2.2.1.1 04-751-01 1-4
2.2.1.2 04-751-01 2-4
2.2.1.3 04-751-01 3-4
2.2.1.4 04-751-01 4-4
2.2.2 Structural Framing:
2.2.2.1 04-753-01 2-7
2.2.2.2 04-753-01 3-7
2.2.2.3 04-753-01 4-7
2.2.2.4 04-753-01 5-7
2.2.2.5 04-753-01 6-7
2.2.2.6 04-753-01 7-7
2.2.3 Site Paging Speaker Tower:
2.2.3.1 31-701-01 1-4
2.2.3.2 31-701-02 2-4
2.2.3.3 31-701-03 3-4
2.2.3.4 31-701-04 4-4
3.0 REQUIREMENTS.
3.1 General.
The contactor shall supply the materials, equipment and labor necessary to
remove the existing tower roof, relocate the site public address speaker stand,
construct a catwalk, and install a new roof with an applied protective coating.
The temporary removal and reinstallation of other items on the roof shall also
be the responsibility of the contractor.
3.2 Demolition: The contractor shall remove the existing metal roof in a
manner that will provide protection for the building interior from weather
or falling debris. Contractor shall provide a description of the pro-
tective measures to be taken during demolition.
3.3 Roof.
3.3.1 The roof shall be fabricated of roll formed 24 gauge steel. The roof
panels shall have a maximum covering width of 16 inches and have 3-inch
interlocking ribs. Roof shall meet the safety code requirements for Tooele Army
Depot and Uniform Building Codes submitted.
3.3.2 Insulation: Non-combustible roof insulation shall be batts, blankets
and/or rigid fiberglass material (R factor 19), and shall be installed in the
cavity of the exterior panels or the roof. The insulation shall be faced with a
vapor barrier placed toward the interior of the building.
3.3.3 Caps, Strips and Plates: Ridge caps, eave and edge strips, fascia
strips, miscellaneous sheet metal accessories, unless specified otherwise
herein, shall be per manufacturers standard practice.
2
3.3.4 Sheet Metal Accessories: Of same material and finish as used for adja-
cent roof covering.
3.3.5 Fasteners: Fasteners for attachment to structural supports and fasteners
for attachment to adjoining sheets or panels shall be as approved, and in accor-
dance with the manufacturers recommendation.
3.3.6 Side and end laps shall be sealed with material recommended by the manu-
facturer.
3.4 Protective Coating.
The exterior surface of the roof shall be coated with Lion Nekorode Roof
Seal, or with an equivalent material. The roof seal is a solvent cut back,
asphalt base mastic that is resistant to alkalis and acids, and is non-flammable
in its cured state.
3.4.1 Surface to Receive Sealer: Sealer shall be applied at the manufacturers
suggested rate to provide a complete moisture vapor barrier. Spraying shall be
the suggested method of application, and precautions shall be taken to avoid
overspray upon adjacent buildings or equipment.
3.5 Catwalk. Contractor shall construct a catwalk (walkway) across the roof
area according to drawings provided. Field modifications made to accommodate
construction of the walkway shall be noted on a drawing and submitted to the
Government as "as-built".
3.6 Speaker Stand. The site public address speaker stand shall be relocated
to the northwest corner of the roof by the contractor. Contractor shall be
responsible for additional wiring necessary to accommodate the new speaker
location, and rearrangement of ladder to access speakers.
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE.
4.1 Inspection.
4.1.2 All materials furnished in the Contractor's performance of this work
shall be subject to inspection and approval by the Contracting Officer or
his/her designated representative to ensure that the materials meet the require-
ments of this specification. Materials not meeting the specified requirements
will be rejected and shall be replaced at once by the Contractor with materials
meeting specification requirements at no cost to the Government.
4.1.2 Installation procedures shall also be subject to inspection with any
materials that are improperly installed or excessively damaged removed and
replaced with undamaged materials following correct installation procedure at
the Contractor's expense unless the damage was caused subsequent to installation
and by other than the Contractor's employees.
4.1.3 Inspection and approval of material or workmanship shall not relieve the
Contractor of any of his responsibility. The fact that the Contracting Officer
or designated representative may inadvertently overlook a deviation from some
requirement of this specification shall not constitute a waiver of that require-
ment or of the Contractor's obligation to correct the condition when it is
discovered.
3
4.2 Guarantees. The Contractor shall guarantee all materials and workmanship
for a period of one year from the date of installation completion and shall
repair or replace promptly without cost to the Government any part or parts that
fail as a result of defective materials or workmanship.
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY.
5.1 Submittals.
5.2 Contractor shall provide preliminary drawings or other documentation which
define the Contractor's specific design or recommended materials. Design and
materials shall be subject to approval.
5.3 Dimensions on all Government provided drawings are to be used for reference
only. Contractor shall become familiar with all details of the work, verify all
dimensions and advise the Contracting Officer of any significant discrepancies
before commencing work. Contractor shall be responbile for the final design and
installation adjustments to complete contract requirements in a professional
manner. "As-built" corrections shall be delivered to the Government at contract
completion. Contractor is encouraged to visit CAMDS prior to bid to become
familiar with existing conditions and drawings.
5.4 Contractor shall prepare and submit a work schedule/activity cahrt showing
each major task, sub-task and their duration.
6.0 NOTES.
6.1 Flame producing devices shall not be brought into the area beyond the ammu-
nition entrance gate unless these devices are required for construction pur-
poses. Flame permits shall be secured prior to entry.
6.2 Gas masks will be furnished by the Government. Contractor shall be respon-
sible for return of all gas masks after completion of construction, and shall be
responsible for lost or damaged masks. Contractor shall be responsible for
obtaining information on facial hair limitation.
6.3 Contractor shall comply with all safety requirements.
6.4 Contractor shall note that extra time will be required for personnel to
enter the work site each day, and should adjust his bid accordingly. Special
permits are required to gain entry for both personnel and vehicles.
6.5 Contractor shall be responsible for the establishment of cholinesterase
base levels for all personnel who are to enter the work site. Personnel who
have not had base levels determined will not be permitted to enter. Contractor
shall coordinate with Chemical Surety Program Office on base levels blood
samples.
6.6 Contractor shall be required to have a Government supplied security escort
at all times within the CAMDS site. Contractor shall coordinate with COR
for escorts.
6.7 At no time shall the Contractor's work, storage of materials, parking of
vehicles or other activities be allowed to interfere with the work activities
of Government personnel or to damage Government of personal property.
4
6.8 Contractor shall be responsible for any damage to CAMDS facilities,
buildings or other structures incurred during the execution of the contract.
6.9 Contractor shall be responsible for site paving or concrete damaged during
execution of the contract.
6.10 Contractor shall keep the construction area clean, and shall perform a
final cleanup at contract completion. Contractor shall be responsible for remo-
val of all debris. Excess usable materials remain the property of TEAD and shall
be removed from the work area as directed by TEAD personnel.
5
SPECI FI CATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE SYSTEM
BARRIER WALL PENETRATION PANEL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-63
RON PAYEUR
28 MARCH 1988
CHEMICAL AGENT/MUNITIONS DISPOSAL SSE
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
DA358 3 9 1 DA01 6 1 0 1 -1
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE SYSTEM
BARRIER WALL PENETRATION PANEL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-63
RON PAYEUR
28 MARCH 1988
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
ii
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE SYSTEM
BARRIER WALL PENETRATION PANEL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-63
PREPARED BY:
RON PAYP
Chemical Engineer
CONCURRED BY:
-- STEVEN V. NEONZ- KE NETH L. ORRIS
Chief, Documentation Branch Actg. hief, PI nts Division
ROY G. NISKALA
Chief, Thermal, Chem. & Fac. Branch
APPROVED BY:
C fChief, Engineering Division
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE SYSTEM
BARRIER WALL PENETRATION PANEL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-63
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
1. SCOPE 1
2. APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS 1
3. REQUIREMENTS 2
4. QUALITY ASSURANCE 3
5. PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY 4
6. NOTES 4
iv
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE SYSTEM
BARRIER WALL PENETRATION PANEL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-63
1.0 SCOPE.
1.1 This Specification defines the requirements for the fabrication and
installation of a penetration panel in the Deactivation Furnace System (DFS)
barrier wall. The barrier houses the retort portion of the DFS located at the
Chemical Agent Munitions Disposal System (CAMDS) Site, South Area, Tooele Army
Depot.
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS.
2.1 The documents listed in this paragraph form a part of this specification to
the extent specified herein. The issue in effect on the date of invitation for
bids or request for proposal shall apply.
2.1.1 AASHTO M157-86 Ready-Mixed Concrete
2.1.2 AASHTO T26-79 Water Quality for Concrete
2.1.3 ACI SP-15-84 Structural Concrete for Building
2.1.4 ANSI A10.9-83 Safety Requirements
2.1.5 ASTM C94-86 Ready-Mix Specifications
2.1.6 ACI 315-80 Concrete Reinforcement
2.1.7 ACI 439.3R-83 Reinforcement Mechanical Connections
2.1.8 ANSI A10.18-83 Wall Openings
2.1.9 ASTM A36-74 Structural Steel
2.2 Drawings:
04-754-02 Penetration Panel
3.0 REQUIREMENTS.
3.1 General. The Contractor shall supply the materials, equipment and labor
necessary to fabricate and install a penetration panel in the DFS retort barrier
wall.
1
3.2 Penetration Panel: The penetration panel plates shall be constructed from
1-inch carbon steel plate, with 1-inch NPT pipe nipples and pipe fittings as the
interconnecting devices as shown in drawing 04-754-02. Contractor shall deter-
mine exact length of pipe nipples from field measurements after the wall
penetration is completed.
3.3 Demolition: The Contractor shall excavate an opening through the retort
barrier wall to allow installation of the penetration panel in a vertical posi-
tion. The excavation shall minimize removal of existing reinforcement except
where necessary to allow placement of the interconnecting pipe nipples. Other
reinforcement removed to facilitate excavation shall be replaced prior to
installation of the penetration panel. Reinforcement omissions shall be noted
as "as built" on a drawing submitted to CAMDS Engineering. Drawing No.
04-754-02 indicates panel locations.
3.4 Installation: The penetration panel plates shall overlap the wall opening
1-inch on each side for each panel. Panel Plate No. 1, with attached pipe
nipples, shall be secured to the retort side of the barrier wall. Wall voids
shall then be filled with concrete, and finally Plate No. 2 secured in place.
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE.
4.1 Inspection.
4.1.2 All materials furnished in the Contractor's performance of this work
shall be subject to inspection and approval by the Contracting Officer or
designated representative to ensure that the materials meet the requirements of
this specification. Materials not meeting the specified requirements will be
rejected and shall be replaced at once by the Contractor with materials meeting
specification requirements at no cost to the Government.
4.1.3 Installation procedure shall also be subject to inspection with any
materials that are improperly installed or excessively damaged removed and
replaced with undamaged materials following correct installation procedure at
the Contractor's expense unless the damage was caused subsequent to installation
and by other than the Contractor's employees.
4.1.4 Inspection and approval of material or workmanship shall not relieve the
Contractor of any of his responsibility. The fact that the Contracting Officer
or designated representative may inadvertently overlook a deviation from some
requirement of this specification shall not constitute a waiver of that require-
ment or of the Contractor's obligation to correct the condition when it is
discovered.
4.2 Guarantees. The Contractor shall guarantee all materials and workmanship
for a period of one year from the date of installation completion and shall
repair or replace promptly without cost to the Government any part or parts that
fail as a result of defective materials or workmanship.
2
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY.
5.1 Submittals.
5.2 Contractor shall provide preliminary drawings or other documentation which
define the Contractor's specific design or recommended materials. Design and
materials shall be subject to approval.
5.3 Dimensions on all Government provided drawings are to be used for reference
only. Contractor shall become familiar with all details of the work, verify all
dimensions and advise the Contracting Officer of any significant discrepancies
before commencing work. Contractor shall be responsible for the final design
and installation adjustments to complete contract requirements in a professional
manner. "As-built" corrections shall be delivered to the Government at contract
completion. Contractor is encouraged to visit CAMDS prior to bid to become
familiar with existing conditions and drawings.
5.4 Contractor shall prepare and submit a work schedule/activity chart showing
each major task, sub-task and their duration.
6.0 NOTES.
6.1 Flame producing devices shall not be brought into the area beyond the ammu-
nition entrance gate unless these devices are required for construction pur-
poses. Flame permits shall be secured prior to entry.
6.2 Gas masks will be furnished by the Government. Contractor shall be
responsible for return of all gas masks after completion of construction, and
shall be responsible for lost or damaged masks. Contractor shall be responsible
for obtaining information on facial hair limitation.
6.3 Contactor shall comply with all safety requirements.
6.4 Contractor shall note that extra time will be required for personnel to
enter the work site each day, and should adjust his bid accordingly. Special
permits are required to gain entry for both personnel and vehicles.
6.5 Contractor shall be responsible for the establishment of cholinesterase
base line for all personnel who are to enter the work site. Personnel who
have not had base line determined will not be permitted to enter. Contractor
shall coordinate with Chemical Surety Program Office on base line blood
samples.
6.6 Contractor shall be required to have a Government supplied security escort
at all times within the CAMDS Site. Contracor shall coordinate with TEAD
Security for escorts.
6.7 At no time shall the Contractor's work, storage of materials, parking of
vehicles or other activities be allowed to interfere with the work activities of
Government personnel or to damage Government property.
3
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
RETORT SECTION FRCM WROUGHT METAL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-69
14 MAY 1991
RON PAYEUR
CHEMICAL AGENT/MUNITIONS DISPOSAL SYSTEM
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
ID8 DA01II0l3II-1IIIIIIIIIIliili IIIDA385889 DA01 6108-1
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
RETORT SECTION FROM WROUGHT METAL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-69
14 MAY 1991
RON PAYEUR
CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITIONS DISPOSAL DIRECTORATE
CAMDS DIRECTORATE
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
ii
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
RETORT SECTION FROM WROUGHT METAL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-69
PREPARED BY:
RN E •DATE
Chemica Engineer
CONCURRENCES:
ROY G. NISKALA ST VEN V. NI N
Chief, Them, Chem & Fac Branch Chief, Documentatio anch
APPROVED BY:
4- KELLAND H. WILLIS DATE
Chief, Engineering Division
iii
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
RETORT SECTION FROM WROUGHT METAL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-69
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
1.0 SCOPE 1
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS 1
3.0 REQUIREMENTS 1
4.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY 2
iv
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
RETORT SECTION FROM WROUGHT METAL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-69
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements which shall apply to the
fabrication of a retort section for the Deactivation Furnace at the Tooele Army
Depot (TEAD) CAMDS Site. The retort section will be used as part of a rotary
kiln for the incineration of waste materials at temperatures of 900OF to 1700OF
in an oxidizing atmosphere.
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
The documents listed below form a part of this specification to the extent
referenced, but are all inclusive. The documents referenced in this text are by
basic designation only.
2.1 Federal Standards (Fed. Std.)
MIL-STD-248D 10 Mar 89 Welding and Brazing Procedure and Performance
Qualifications
MIL STD-1890 17 Jun 85 Inspection of Welded Joints
MIL-E-22200/3F 19 Sep 86 Nickel Base Covered Welding Electrodes
MIL-E-22200/G 3 May 89 General Specification for Covered Welding
Electrodes
2.2 American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM)
1916 Race St.
Philadelphia, PA 19103-1187
ASTM B168-90 Notice 1 16 May 90 Standard Specification for Ni-Cr-Fe
Alloy Plate, Sheet and Strip
2.3 Americal Welding Society Inc. (AWS)
550 NW Le Jeune Rd
P.O. Box 351040
Miami, FL 33135
AWS WHB-4 Ch 6 Nickel and Cobal Alloys
2.4 Drawings
TCDS 04-902-04.
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 The Vendor shall fabricate a retort section according to the dimensions and
tolerances specified in drawing 04-902-04.
1
3.2 The retort shell shall be fabricated from heat resistant nickel alloy 253MA
(ASTMA240) RA253MA with the following composition: Nickel (Ni) 10.0-12.0%;
Chromium (Cr) 20.0-22.0%; Carbon (C) 0.05-0.10%; Silicon (Si) 1.40-2.00%;
Manganese (Mn) 0.80% max; Phosphorus (P) 0.040% max; Sulfur (S) 0.03% max;
Nitrogen (N) 0.14-0.20%; Cerium (Ce) 0.03-0.08%; Iron (Fe) balance. The inter-
nal flights shall be fabricated of 253MA material. The Vendor shall provide
material certification to CAMDS with fabricated retort sections.
3.3 The retort section flanges shall be fabricated of 253MA material. The
flanges shall be machined after being welded as shown on drawing 04-902-04.
Flange bolt hole locations must be met to assure match configuration with other
retort sections.
3.4 253MA welding electrodes or bare welding wire shall be used for all weld-
ing operations. Gas Metal Arc (GMA) welding shielding gas shall be pure argon
(99.95%A). No oxygen or carbon dioxide additions shall be made to the argon.
Vendor shall consult with metal supplier on welding techniques (i.e. current
requirements, flux removal, metal cooling).
3.5 Vendor shall stamp or weld the year of manufacture on the retort section
and type of material.
4.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
4.1 The retort section shall be protected from damage, especially the machined
flanges, during shipment. Vendor shall use normal packing procedures to prepare
the retort section for shipment.
2
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
RETORT SECTION FRCM WROUGHT METAL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-69A
13 NOVEMBER 1991
CHEMICAL AGENT/MUNITIONS DISPOSAL SYSTEM
CAMDS ACTIVITY
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
DA358394 DA01 6103-2
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
RETORT SECTION FRCM WROUGHT METAL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-69A
13 NOVEMBER 1991
~RONALD T. PAYEUR
• CHEMICAL AGENT/MUNITIONS DISPOSAL SYS1
CAMDS ACTIVITY
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UTAH 84074
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
RETORT SECTION FROM WROUGHT METAL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-69A
13 NOVEMBER 1991
RONALD T. PAYEUR
U. S. ARMY CHEMICAL AGENT MUNITION DISPOSAL SYSTEM ACTIVITY
TOOELE ARMY DEPOT
TOOELE, UT 84074
ii
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
RETORT SECTION FROM WROUGHT METAL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-69A
PREPARED BY:
RON PAYEW DATEChemical Ertineer
CONCURRENCES:
LLA DATE STEVEN V. NIELSOH•_I DATE
Chief, Engineering Division Chief, Documentation Branch
APPROVED BY:
DATE
t ger
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
RETORT SECTION FROM WROUGHT METAL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-69A
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
1.0 SCOPE 1
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS 1
3.0 REQUIREMENTS 1
4.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY 2
iv
SPECIFICATION
FOR
DEACTIVATION FURNACE
RETORT SECTION FROM WROUGHT METAL
SPECIFICATION NO. 04-69A
1.0 SCOPE
1.1 This specification establishes the requirements which shall apply to the
fabrication of a retort section for the Deactivation Furnace at the Tooele Army
Depot (TEAD) CAMDS Site. The retort section will be used as part of a rotary
kiln for the incineration of waste materials at temperatures of 900OF to 1800OF
in an oxidizing atmosphere.
2.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
The documents listed below form a part of this specification to the extent
referenced, but are all inclusive. The documents referenced in this text are by
basic designation only.
2.1 Federal Standards (Fed. Std.)
MIL-STD-248D 10 Mar 89 Welding and Brazing Procedure and Performance
Qualifications
MIL STD-1890 17 Jun 85 Inspection of Welded Joints
MIL-E-22200/3F 19 Sep 86 Nickel Base Covered Welding Electrodes
MIL-E-22200/G 3 May 89 General Specification for Covered Welding
Electrodes
2.2 American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM)
1916 Race St.
Philadelphia, PA 19103-1187
ASTM B168-90 Notice 1 16 May 90 Standard Specification for Ni-Cr-Fe
Alloy Plate, Sheet and Strip
2.3 Americal Welding Society Inc. (AWS)
550 NW Le Jeune Rd
P.O. Box 351040
Miami, FL 33135
AWS WHB-4 Ch 6 Nickel and Cobalt Alloys
2.4 Drawings
TCDS 04-902-05.
3.0 REQUIREMENTS
3.1 The Vendor shall fabricate a retort section according to the dimensions and
tolerances specified in drawing 04-902-05.
1
3.2 The retort shell shall be fabricated from heat resistant nickel alloy 253MA
(UNS-S30815) with the following composition: Nickel (Ni) 10.0-12.0%; Chromium
(Cr) 20.0-22.0%; Carbon (C) 0.05-0.10%; Silicon (Si) 1.40-2.00%; Manganese (Mn)
0.80% max; Phosphorus (P) 0.040% max; Sulfur (S) 0.03% max; Nitrogen (N)
0.14-0.20%; Cerium (Ce) 0.03-0.08%; Iron (Fe) balance. The internal flights
shall be fabricated of 253MA material. The Vendor shall provide material certi-
fication to CAMDS with fabricated retort sections.
3.3 The retort section flanges shall be fabricated of 253MA material. The
flanges shall be machined after being welded as shown on drawing 04-902-05.
Flange bolt hole locations must be met to assure match configuration with other
retort sections.
3.4 253MA welding electrodes or bare welding wire shall be used for all weld-
ing operations. Gas Metal Arc (GMA) welding shielding gas shall be pure argon
(99.95%A). No oxygen or carbon dioxide additions shall be made to the argon.
Vendor shall consult with metal supplier on welding techniques (i.e. current
requirements, flux removal, metal cooling).
3.5 Vendor shall stamp or weld the year of manufacture on the retort section
and type of material.
4.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE
4.1 Inspection
4.1.1 All materials, procedures or workmanship may be subject to inspection and
approval by the Contracting Officer or designated Contracting Officer
Representative (COR) to ensure that the requirements of the specification are
being met. Materials or workmanship not meeting the requirements of the speci-
fication shall be corrected or replaced by the Vendor at no cost to the
Government.
4.1,2 Inspection and approval of material or workmanship shall not relieve the
Vendor of any responsibility. Deviations from some requirement of this specifi-
cation that have inadvertently been overlooked by the COR shall not constitute
a waiver of that requirement or the Vendor's obligation to correct the condition
when it is discovered.
5.0 PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY
5.1 The retort section shall be protected from damage, especially the machined
flanges, during shipment. Vendor shall use normal packing procedures to prepare
the retort section for shipment.
2
